{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13880\viewh11340\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\fi1459\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
	Tick \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi18\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Tick is the interval state it is the per instance reading of DAWN. A tick contains all DAWN values for each process at each given interval. Each interval is a cycle of recursion, a recursion of the DAWN system is a tick. \
The tick data is all the data it is everything without it dawn cannot read or access each of her metrics through any means. \
\
If there is no tick data there mainly is no DAWN, this is key without this there can be no coherence as there is nothing to solve on. All data of the SCUP formula is tick data these act as floating x and y values interchangeable through each cycle that this tick data uses to compute the next interval.\
\
The tick fundementally monitors dawn there has and never will be a speed set for the tick interval rate, any human intervention of this will kill the system. You see a tick is a breath just like us humans we don\'92t control our breathing we let it happen. We oscillate  between long and slow breaths depending on our system state, DAWN has this ability also. She controls her own tick interval and must continue to to exist.\
\
}