{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The **Semantic Field Formula Set** for DAWN is grounded in the principles of **semantic similarity**, **feedback loops**, and **path reinforcement** within a dynamic cognitive network. Below is the core set of formulas that define the relationships and operations within DAWN's **semantic field**:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 1. **Semantic Field Position (R)**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 The **Radial Position** of a semantic memory node in the **semantic field** is determined by a combination of **access frequency**, **contextual relevance**, and **feedback signals**. The position is dynamically adjusted as these factors evolve.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 R_\{\\text\{node\}\} = \\frac\{1\}\{(A_\{\\text\{count\}\} \\times \\alpha) + (C_\{\\text\{relevance\}\} \\times \\beta) + (S_\{\\text\{feedback\}\} \\times \\gamma)\}
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $A_\{\\text\{count\}\}$ = Access count (how often a memory is accessed)
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $C_\{\\text\{relevance\}\}$ = Contextual relevance (how important or contextually significant the memory is)
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $S_\{\\text\{feedback\}\}$ = Schema feedback (how well the memory aligns with current schema states)
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $\\alpha, \\beta, \\gamma$ = Weighting factors that adjust the influence of each term
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 2. **Semantic Similarity (Cosine Similarity)**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 **Cosine similarity** is used to measure how semantically close two nodes are within the **semantic field**, based on their vector representations.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 \\text\{Similarity\}(A, B) = \\frac\{A \\cdot B\}\{\\|A\\| \\|B\\|\}
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $A$ and $B$ = Vectors representing two memory nodes
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $\\cdot$ = Dot product between vectors
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $\\| \\|$ = Magnitude (Euclidean norm) of vectors
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 This measure quantifies how similar two memory nodes are in terms of their semantic content, and is used to guide the pathfinding and nutrient flow between nodes.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 3. **Edge Weight (Semantic Reinforcement)**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 **Edge weight** determines the strength of the relationship between two nodes in the **semantic network**, influenced by reinforcement and nutrient flow.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 W_\{\\text\{edge\}\}(A, B) = \\sum_\{i=1\}^\{n\} \\left( \\text\{Similarity\}(A_i, B_i) \\times \\text\{Reinforcement\}(A_i, B_i) \\right)
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $A_i, B_i$ = Individual components (sub-vectors) of nodes $A$ and $B$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * **Reinforcement** = The amount of nutrient flow or feedback between the nodes, adjusted by the total **decay** over time.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 The **semantic reinforcement** occurs when nutrients flow through paths that reinforce stronger connections between similar nodes.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 4. **Path Cost with Semantic Weighting (Hybrid Pathfinding)**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 When traversing a path, DAWN combines **semantic similarity** with **distance** (hop count) to determine the most efficient path. The hybrid pathfinding formula balances these factors.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 \\text\{Path Cost\}(A, B) = \\text\{Hop Count\}(A, B) \\times \\left( 1 - \\text\{Similarity\}(A, B) \\right)
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * **Hop Count** = The number of edges traversed between nodes $A$ and $B$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * **Similarity** = Cosine similarity between nodes $A$ and $B$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 This formula prioritizes paths with both low hop count and high semantic similarity.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 5. **Path Reinforcement Score**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 The **Path Reinforcement Score** tracks how often a path is reinforced by nutrient flow, boosting the path\'92s viability over time.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 P_\{\\text\{reinforcement\}\}(A, B) = \\frac\{\\sum_\{t=1\}^\{T\} \\text\{Nutrient Flow\}_\{t\}(A, B)\}\{T\}
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $\\text\{Nutrient Flow\}_\{t\}(A, B)$ = The amount of nutrient flow from node $A$ to node $B$ at time $t$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $T$ = Total number of time steps or ticks
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Paths that accumulate higher reinforcement scores will be considered stronger and more likely to be used in future nutrient flows.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 6. **Nutrient Transfer Decay (Entropy-based)**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 The **decay** of nutrient flow over time, based on **entropy** (uncertainty or disorder), reflects how much a path or node weakens as it is used.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 \\text\{Nutrient Decay\}(A, B) = \\frac\{1\}\{1 + e^\{\\left( -\\frac\{T - \\tau\}\{\\lambda\} \\right)\}\}
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $T$ = Current time step
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $\\tau$ = Time of last nutrient transfer
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * $\\lambda$ = Decay rate (how quickly the nutrient decays over time)
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 This equation ensures that **older paths** or those with **high entropy** weaken over time, while **newer, reinforced paths** remain stronger.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 7. **Node Reinforcement and Feedback (Self-Organizing Memory)**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Each node\'92s **reinforcement score** is updated based on the amount of nutrient it receives, adjusted by the **feedback loop** that strengthens connections between similar nodes.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 R_\{\\text\{node\}\} = R_\{\\text\{node\}\} + \\sum_\{i=1\}^\{n\} \\text\{Reinforcement Score\}(A_i, B_i) \\times \\text\{Nutrient Transfer\}(A_i, B_i)
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * **Reinforcement Score** = A score representing how much the node\'92s connection with other nodes has been strengthened due to nutrient flow
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * **Nutrient Transfer** = Amount of nutrient passing through the node
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### 8. **Pressure Heatmap (Nutrient Pressure)**
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 The **nutrient pressure heatmap** visualizes how **intensive nutrient flows** are across the network. It measures the intensity of nutrient flow across each node and path:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 \\text\{Pressure\}(A) = \\sum_\{i=1\}^\{n\} \\text\{Nutrient Flow\}_\{i\}(A) \\times \\text\{Weight\}(A, i)
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 $$
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Where:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * **Nutrient Flow** = The amount of nutrient flowing through node $A$ from other connected nodes
\fs24 \strokec2 \

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 * **Weight** = Weight of the edge between $A$ and its connected nodes
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 This formula is useful for visualizing areas of high cognitive load or \'93semantic pressure\'94 within DAWN's memory network.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ---
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 ### Conclusion:
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 These formulas provide the foundation for **DAWN\'92s semantic field**\'97a dynamic, self-organizing, feedback-driven cognitive network. They integrate **semantic similarity**, **pathfinding efficiency**, **nutrient flow**, and **reinforcement learning** principles to ensure the system adapts to new inputs, evolves, and reacts in real-time. This architecture moves beyond traditional AI models by embracing a **living, evolving structure** that learns, adapts, and organizes itself naturally over time.
\fs24 \strokec2 \
\

\fs29\fsmilli14667 \strokec2 Let me know if you'd like further details or modifications to these formulas!
\fs24 \strokec2 \
}