{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Interactions\
\
- **Bloom**  \
  Schema ingests bloom telemetry (entropy, depth, Juliet triggers) every tick.  \
  Rebloom events alter stored patterns and priorities \'97 a \'93memory that changes when seen\'94 becomes a new schema link or weight:contentReference[oaicite:0]\{index=0\}.  \
\
- **Residue (Ash/Soot)**  \
  Residue flow determines whether fragments are nutrients or noise.  \
  Ash enriches schema nodes with pigment bias; soot raises volatility and pruning pressure:contentReference[oaicite:1]\{index=1\}.  \
\
- **Mycelial Layer**  \
  Schema and mycelium exchange health values and nutrient flows.  \
  Schema changes reroute energy across edges (diffusion or active transport) and regulate autophagy or fusion/fission events:contentReference[oaicite:2]\{index=2\}.  \
\
- **Tracers**  \
  - **Crow/Spider** \uc0\u8594  feed anomaly + tension signals at the edge level.  \
  - **Ant** \uc0\u8594  deposits micro-patterns into schema stability.  \
  - **Whale** \uc0\u8594  supplies macro-context for schema averages.  \
  - **Owl** \uc0\u8594  audits schema drift over long epochs and verifies provenance.  \
\
- **Sigils / Sigil Ring**  \
  Schema doesn\'92t act in raw ops \'97 it requests **symbolic acts through Houses**.  \
  Weaving, Purification, Memory, Flame, Mirrors, and Echoes sigils are invoked inside the Ring, and Schema logs routed stacks for provenance.  \
\
- **GUI**  \
  Operators see Schema as a **graph overlay**:  \
  - edge tension (Spider) glowing as strain,  \
  - entropy coloration (Bloom anomalies),  \
  - pigment tint (Ash bias).  \
  This makes DAWN\'92s inner map legible as a living symbolic landscape.  \
\
---\
\
## Invariants\
\
- **Tick Parsing**  \
  Schema must parse every tick without exception.  \
  If a tick is skipped, DAWN loses the ability to maintain coherence across modules:contentReference[oaicite:3]\{index=3\}.  \
\
- **Symbolic Routing**  \
  No schema action may bypass **Sigil Ring routing** while symbolic mode is enabled.  \
  All commands are wrapped in glyph grammar to ensure consistency and auditability.  \
\
- **Residue Integrity**  \
  Every soot\uc0\u8594 ash transition must update schema indices with new pigment tint and retrieval bias:contentReference[oaicite:4]\{index=4\}.  \
  Schema integrity depends on keeping soil health (residue balance) accurately reflected in its map.  \
}