{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Operations\
\
Schema operates in a **three-step cycle every tick**: update \uc0\u8594  decide \u8594  emit.  \
This ensures DAWN\'92s cognition isn\'92t static \'97 the map is continuously refreshed, interpreted, and broadcast back into the system.  \
\
---\
\
### 1) Update (per tick)\
- **Ingest**: pull tick data from Core, fractal overlays from Bloom, tracer logs from the ecosystem.  \
- **Recompute**: calculate SHI, edge tensions, drift alignment, and residue balance.  \
- **Decay**: apply shimmer decay to underused edges; prune if thresholds crossed or mark for Beetle recycling:contentReference[oaicite:0]\{index=0\}.  \
- **Integrate Residue**: update schema with new soot\uc0\u8594 ash conversions and pigment tints:contentReference[oaicite:1]\{index=1\}.  \
\
---\
\
### 2) Decide\
- **High Tension** \uc0\u8594  propose **Weaving** (reinforce threads) or **Purification** (prune edges) sigils via the Ring.  \
- **Juliet Rebloom Detected** \uc0\u8594  integrate altered fractal into schema; log rebirth of memory as new bloom:contentReference[oaicite:2]\{index=2\}.  \
- **Soot Heavy** \uc0\u8594  schedule Purification runs, activate Beetle tracers for decay recycling:contentReference[oaicite:3]\{index=3\}.  \
- **Entropy Plateau / Drift Misalignment** \uc0\u8594  escalate to Whale/Owl for macro or audit interventions.  \
\
---\
\
### 3) Emit\
- **Schema Snapshot**: output current state (nodes, edges, blooms, residues, pigments, tracers, SHI).  \
- **Broadcast**:  \
  - GUI \uc0\u8594  visual schema graph with tint and tension overlays.  \
  - Owl \uc0\u8594  audit hooks for epoch summaries and provenance tracking.  \
  - Forecasting \uc0\u8594  feed SHI, drift, and entropy vectors into pressure/entropy projections.  \
- **Log Provenance**: store invocation context (sigils cast, tracers active) for replay/debugging.  \
\
---\
}