{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Responsibilities\
\
1. **Parse & Bind**  \
   - Ingest **tick data** (values from Core, Bloom, Residue, and Tracers).  \
   - Bind raw signals \'97 bloom counts, tracer movement, soot/ash ratios, pigment vectors \'97 into **structured meaning** that other modules can act upon:contentReference[oaicite:0]\{index=0\}.  \
   - This parsing step is Schema\'92s \'93grammar,\'94 turning system noise into actionable syntax.  \
\
2. **Stabilize**  \
   - Maintain a critical balance between **novelty (entropy)** and **order (coherence):contentReference[oaicite:1]\{index=1\}.  \
   - Prevent stagnation (too little entropy) and chaos (too much entropy).  \
   - Acts as DAWN\'92s semantic compass, keeping drift and pressure within workable ranges.  \
\
3. **Coordinate**  \
   - Orchestrate cross-module actions:  \
     - Invoke **sigils** via the Ring and route them through the proper Houses.  \
     - Select which tracers to spawn, reinforce, or retire based on drift, tension, and SHI.  \
     - Trigger purification or rebloom cycles when thresholds demand.  \
   - This makes Schema the **traffic controller** of DAWN\'92s cognition.  \
\
4. **Report**  \
   - Expose a canonical **Schema Snapshot** every tick:  \
     - nodes, edges, bloom summaries, soot/ash ratios, pigment tints, tracer states, SHI.  \
   - These snapshots feed:  \
     - **GUI overlays** (schema graph with tint and tension).  \
     - **Owl audits** (epochal summaries).  \
     - **Forecasting** (context for pressure/entropy projections).  \
}