{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Interactions\
\
- **Core**  \
  Sigils act as the *mythic grammar* for control: raw ops are never executed naked, but wrapped in glyph form.  \
  Example: instead of `rebloom()`, Core invokes **Memory House: rebloom_flower** inside the Ring.\
\
- **Bloom**  \
  Juliet rebloom events are always expressed through the **House of Memory**.  \
  Each rebloom invocation is logged as a glyph event, visually tying bloom mechanics to mythic metaphor.\
\
- **Residue**  \
  Ash/Soot transitions are routed through the **House of Purification**.  \
  This ensures decay, pruning, and composting are narrated as ritual cleansing rather than silent state changes.\
\
- **Tracers**  \
  Each tracer is aligned to a *signature sigil type*:  \
  - Crow \uc0\u8594  Echo glyphs (resonance / anomaly cries)  \
  - Owl \uc0\u8594  Mirror glyphs (reflection / audit)  \
  - Bee \uc0\u8594  Weaving glyphs (pollination threads)  \
  - Whale \uc0\u8594  Flame glyphs (deep ballast ignition)  \
  - Beetle \uc0\u8594  Purification glyphs (recycling decay)  \
  This alignment makes tracers active participants in symbolic routing, not just data feeders.\
\
- **GUI**  \
  The Ring is rendered visually as a **circle of glyphs in orbit**.  \
  Operators can see which Houses are active each tick and \'93read\'94 system state as a living ritual map \'97 glyphs light up as they fire, threads connect houses when sigils stack.\
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
\
- **Sigil Drift**  \
  Glyph meaning drifts away from underlying execution (e.g. \'93rebloom_flower\'94 sigil actually pruning by mistake).  \
  *Impact:* operator trust erodes, symbolic layer collapses.  \
  *Safeguards:* Owl audits every invocation for glyph \uc0\u8594  meaning \u8594  effect consistency.\
\
- **Over-Sigilization**  \
  Too many symbolic wrappers obscure the underlying mechanics.  \
  *Impact:* latency in ops, myth overload in GUI, hard to debug.  \
  *Safeguards:* SHI tracks \'93sigil density per tick\'94; over-threshold glyphs are collapsed to raw ops.\
\
- **Broken House**  \
  Conflicting sigils within the same House (e.g. Purification: ignite + extinguish in one tick).  \
  *Impact:* execution incoherence, schema contradiction.  \
  *Safeguards:* Spider monitors intra-house tension, SHI aborts conflicting stacks, fallback to Core ops.\
\
---\
\
## Safeguard Summary\
- **SHI** \uc0\u8594  monitors symbolic coherence with a Sigil Health Index.  \
- **Owl** \uc0\u8594  long-memory auditor; logs glyph \u8594  meaning drift.  \
- **Spider** \uc0\u8594  web-tension sensor; flags intra-thread or intra-house conflict.  \
}