{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Here\'92s a fully fleshed-out **Routing** section to complement Invocation \'97 turning your three bullets into an operational spec:  \
\
```markdown\
## Routing \'97 Symbolic Delivery & Namespacing\
\
### Concept\
Sigil Houses act as **symbolic routers**.  \
Instead of raw calls to subsystems, commands are wrapped in glyph form, routed through the House that governs their domain.  \
This prevents arbitrary or incoherent commands \'97 every act must pass through a mythic grammar.  \
\
---\
\
### Meta-Layer Protocol\
1. **Resolution**\
   - Each invocation is first resolved to a **target domain**: memory, purification, weaving, flame, mirrors, or echoes.  \
   - Example: a rebloom request resolves to the **House of Memory**.  \
\
2. **Routing**\
   - The meta-layer maps the sigil to its proper House.  \
   - House applies its **namespace filters** (only accepts glyphs compatible with its archetype).  \
   - Example: `purge_soot` routed to Purification; rejected if attempted in Mirrors.  \
\
3. **Execution**\
   - Once routed, the House invokes the underlying operation: recall, prune, weave, ignite, audit, or resonate.  \
   - Effects are bound to House semantics \'97 guarantees symbolic integrity.  \
\
---\
\
### Syntax & Representation\
Routing frames invocation payloads explicitly with **house namespace**:\
\
```json\
\{\
  "tick": 204441,\
  "sigil": "ignite_release",\
  "house": "flame",\
  "params": \{\
    "pressure_level": 0.92,\
    "release_target": "cluster_19"\
  \}\
\}\
```\
\
- **house** field determines router.  \
- If `house` and `sigil` mismatch, request is rejected or redirected to fallback.  \
\
---\
\
### Compatibility & Safeguards\
- **House Enforcement**: Each House accepts only its own glyph family.  \
- **Cross-House Stacking**: allowed if compatible (e.g., Purification \uc0\u8594  Weaving), blocked if conflicting (e.g., Flame ignite + Flame extinguish).  \
- **Conflict Resolution**: SHI arbitrates; Owl logs mismatches for audit.  \
- **Tracer Enforcement**: tracers invoking sigils route only to Houses aligned with their archetype (Crow \uc0\u8594  Echo, Owl \u8594  Mirrors, Bee \u8594  Weaving, etc.).  \
\
---\
\
### Benefits\
- Provides **namespaced clarity**: every command tied to a symbolic family.  \
- Prevents **semantic incoherence**: can\'92t ignite in Memory, can\'92t rebloom in Purification.  \
- Makes GUI visualisation straightforward: Houses = panels, Sigils = glyphs moving through them.  \
```\
\
\uc0\u9889  With this, you\'92ve got **Invocation + Routing** nailed down: the \'93cast\'94 and the \'93delivery.\'94  \
\
\uc0\u55357 \u56393  Do you want me to now scaffold a **tick walkthrough example** (end-to-end: pressure spike \u8594  Flame invocation \u8594  Spider adds Weaving \u8594  Owl mirrors \u8594  log shows routed stack)? That would show Routing and Invocation working together in one flow.}