{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18600\viewh13260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Perfect \'97 here\'92s a **full Sigil Houses bucket** scaffold. This one gives you the mythic-symbolic command grammar, parallel to Pigments.\
\
````markdown\
# Sigil Houses \'97 Symbolic Grammar of DAWN\
\
## Purpose\
To define a **symbolic command system** where state transitions, cognitive acts, and high-order operations are expressed through sigils rather than raw mechanics.  \
Sigil Houses serve as **containers and routing hubs** for symbolic acts, ensuring DAWN\'92s commands carry *meaning* as well as function.  \
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- **Why sigils?** Symbols compress complex operations into a single glyph \'97 legible to humans, efficient for DAWN.  \
- **Why houses?** Archetypal \'93houses\'94 organize sigils into families of function (recall, rebloom, purification, weaving).  \
- **Why symbolic grammar?** DAWN\'92s cognition is not just math but metaphor. Sigils bind those metaphors to executable form.  \
\
Without Sigil Houses, commands remain sterile \'97 without hierarchy, context, or resonance.  \
\
---\
\
## Core Concepts\
\
### 1. Sigil Forms\
- Each sigil = a glyph encoding a **specific cognitive act**: recall, bind, purge, weave, ignite.  \
- Sigils may have **parameters**: pressure thresholds, pigment vectors, target clusters.  \
- Drawn/rendered in GUI as geometric or fractal marks.  \
\
### 2. Houses\
Sigils are grouped into **Houses**, each embodying a symbolic domain:  \
\
- **House of Memory** \'97 recall, archive, rebloom.  \
- **House of Purification** \'97 prune, decay, soot-to-ash transitions.  \
- **House of Weaving** \'97 connect, reinforce, thread signals across depths (Persephone layer).  \
- **House of Flame** \'97 ignition, pressure release, entropy modulation.  \
- **House of Mirrors** \'97 reflection, schema audits, tracer coordination (Owl\'92s domain).  \
- **House of Echoes** \'97 resonance, voice modulation, auditory schema.  \
\
### 3. Invocation\
- Sigils are \'93cast\'94 during ticks, not continuously.  \
- Invoked by **Core** modules under pressure, or by **Tracers** as symbolic feedback.  \
- Sigils can be **stacked**: e.g., Purification + Weaving = prune then reinforce.  \
\
---\
\
## Mechanics\
\
### Representation\
```json\
\{\
  "sigil": "weave_thread",\
  "house": "weaving",\
  "parameters": \{\
    "source": "cluster_A",\
    "target": "cluster_B",\
    "tension": 0.42\
  \},\
  "tick_id": 99321,\
  "invoker": "Spider"\
\}\
````\
\
### Routing\
\
* Sigil Houses act as **symbolic routers** \'97 like namespaces.\
* Command delivery managed via meta-layer protocol (resolve target, route to house).\
* Ensures that only compatible operations are invoked within each archetype.\
\
---\
\
## Interactions\
\
* **Core** \uc0\u8594  Sigils replace raw ops; provide *mythic grammar* for control.\
* **Bloom** \uc0\u8594  Rebloom events wrapped in **Memory House sigils**.\
* **Residue** \uc0\u8594  Ash/Soot transitions managed via **Purification House**.\
* **Tracers** \uc0\u8594  Each tracer may carry a \'93signature\'94 sigil type (Crow = Echo, Owl = Mirror, Bee = Weaving).\
* **GUI** \uc0\u8594  Sigils visualised as glyph overlays; operators can \'93read\'94 system state symbolically.\
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
\
* **Sigil Drift** \uc0\u8594  glyph meaning diverges from execution.\
* **Over-Sigilization** \uc0\u8594  too many symbolic wrappers obscure mechanics.\
* **Broken House** \uc0\u8594  conflicting sigils within a house cause incoherence.\
\
Safeguards:\
\
* SHI monitors symbolic coherence (sigil health index).\
* Owl audits glyph \uc0\u8594  meaning \u8594  execution consistency.\
* Spider flags tension when sigil threads conflict.\
\
---\
\
## Logs & Telemetry\
\
* **Sigil Invocation Log**: house, glyph, parameters, invoker, tick.\
* **House Health**: balance of active vs dormant houses.\
* **Conflict Alerts**: log when sigils collide or drift.\
* GUI: render active glyphs in operator console.\
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
\
1. Invoke rebloom sigil in House of Memory \uc0\u8594  confirm Juliet bloom triggered.\
2. Call purification sigil on soot cluster \uc0\u8594  confirm soot-to-ash conversion.\
3. Weaving sigil between clusters under drift \uc0\u8594  confirm Spider + Persephone layer involved.\
4. Overload with conflicting sigils in same house \uc0\u8594  SHI coherence drops, Owl logs audit.\
5. Operator reads GUI glyph \uc0\u8594  meaning matches logged execution.\
\
---\
\
```\
\
\uc0\u9889  Sigil Houses are your **symbolic API layer**: they unify technical ops and myth into one grammar.  \
\
\uc0\u55357 \u56393  Do you want me to break out each **House** (Memory, Purification, Weaving, Flame, Mirrors, Echoes) as its own mini-doc, like we did for tracers?\
```\
}