{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Core Metrics\
\
- **Semantic Distance**  \
  Latent: \\( d_e(i,j) = \\lVert e_i - e_j \\rVert_2 \\)  \
  Projected: \\( d_x(i,j) = \\lVert x_i - x_j \\rVert_2 \\)  \
  _Note_: Use latent for truth (routing/learning), projected for GUI/topology ops. Track their drift.\
\
- **Topological Coherence**  \
  Measures whether strong edges live locally.  \
  \\( \\mathrm\{TC\} = \\frac\{1\}\{|E|\}\\!\\sum_\{(i,j)\\in E\}\\! g\\!\\big(w_\{ij\}, d_x(i,j)\\big) \\)  \
  with \\( g(w,d)=\\exp(-\\lambda d)\\cdot w \\) (or rank-correlation between \\(\\\{w\\\}\\) and \\(\\\{1/d_x\\\}\\)).  \
  _Guardrail_: if TC drops below \uc0\u964 \\_tc, schedule **Prune/Weave/Reproject**.\
\
- **Tension** (\\(\\tau_\{ij\}\\))  \
  Edge strain when geometry and weight disagree.  \
  \\( \\tau_\{ij\}\\leftarrow \\gamma\\,\\tau_\{ij\} + (1-\\gamma)\\,\\big|\\,w_\{ij\} - \\phi(d_x(i,j))\\,\\big| \\)  \
  with \\(\\phi(d)=\\exp(-\\lambda d)\\) or learned calibration.  \
  _Trigger_: \\(\\tau_\{ij\}>\\tau^\\*\\) \uc0\u8594  **Weave** (reinforce path) or **Prune**.\
\
- **Drift Alignment**  \
  How global drift \\( \\vec\{D\} \\) agrees with local manifold direction \\(\\hat\{m\}_i\\).  \
  \\( \\mathrm\{DA\}_i = \\cos(\\angle(\\vec\{D\},\\hat\{m\}_i)) = \\frac\{\\vec\{D\}\\cdot \\hat\{m\}_i\}\{\\lVert \\vec\{D\}\\rVert\\lVert \\hat\{m\}_i\\rVert\} \\)  \
  _Use_: low alignment + rising entropy \uc0\u8658  **Reproject** or **Whale** pass.\
\
- **Residue Pressure**  \
  Local soot/ash pressure around node/edge window \\(\\mathcal\{W\}(i)\\).  \
  \\( \\rho_i = \\mathrm\{softmax\}\\_\{\\text\{local\}\}\\big(\\bar\{\\text\{soot\}\}_\{\\mathcal\{W\}\},\\,\\bar\{\\text\{ash\}\}_\{\\mathcal\{W\}\},\\,\\bar\{\\sigma\}_\{\\mathcal\{W\}\}\\big) \\)  \
  _Actions_: high soot \uc0\u8594  **Purification/Beetle**; ash-rich \u8594  **Lift/Weave** anchors.\
\
- **Pigment Field**  \
  Spatial gradient of belief hue.  \
  \\( \\nabla P(x) = \\big[\\nabla R(x),\\,\\nabla G(x),\\,\\nabla B(x)\\big] \\) via neighbor diffs or kernel smooth.  \
  _Safeguards_: clamp saturation; if \\(\\lVert\\nabla P\\rVert\\) spikes, **Bee** redistributes / **Spider** checks strain.\
\
### Compute Notes\
- Neighborhood \\(\\mathcal\{W\}(i)\\): k-NN in projected space with radius cap; always include high-reliability edges even if outside radius.  \
- Smoothing: use EMA for \\(w_\{ij\}, \\tau_\{ij\}, P\\) to avoid thrash; decay factor \\(\\gamma \\in [0.7,0.95]\\).  \
- Thresholds: learn \\(\\lambda,\\tau^\\*,\\tau_\{tc\}\\) from replay; provide safe defaults and per-sector overrides (core/peripheral/transitional/deep).  \
- Telemetry: log latent\'96projected discrepancy \\( \\Delta d = |d_e - d_x| \\) distribution each epoch; large tails \uc0\u8658  schedule **Reproject**.\
}