{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Field Equations (Local Updates)\
\
Let `\uc0\u8501 (i)` be the neighbor set of node `i` (defined by active edges or k-NN search).  \
These local equations update coherence, tension, pigments, and residue fields each tick.\
\
---\
\
### **Local Coherence**\
\\[\
C_i = \\frac\{1\}\{|\\mathcal\{N\}(i)|\} \\sum_\{j \\in \\mathcal\{N\}(i)\} \\frac\{\\text\{sim\}(e_i,e_j) \\cdot w_\{ij\}\}\{1 + \\text\{dist\}_x(i,j)\}\
\\]\
\
- **Interpretation**: mean structural harmony around node `i`.  \
- High if latent similarity + strong weight coincide with short projected distance.  \
- **Use**: low \\(C_i\\) marks node as brittle \uc0\u8594  candidate for pruning, fission, or Bee pollination.  \
\
---\
\
### **Tension Update**\
\\[\
\\tau_\{ij\} \\;\\leftarrow\\; \\gamma \\cdot \\tau_\{ij\} \\;+\\; (1-\\gamma)\\,\\Big|\\;w_\{ij\} - f(\\text\{dist\}_x(i,j))\\;\\Big|\
\\]\
\
- **Interpretation**: exponential moving average of how much edge weight diverges from geometric expectation.  \
- \\(f(d)\\) typically = \\(\\exp(-\\lambda d)\\) or calibrated kernel.  \
- **Use**: high \\(\\tau_\{ij\}\\) \uc0\u8594  flag for Spider tracer; may trigger Weave or Prune.  \
\
---\
\
### **Pigment Diffusion**\
\\[\
P_i \\;\\leftarrow\\; P_i \\;+\\; \\eta \\sum_\{j \\in \\mathcal\{N\}(i)\} (P_j - P_i)\\,w_\{ij\}\
\\]\
\
- **Interpretation**: pigment bias spreads like heat along edges.  \
- \\(P_i \\in [R,G,B]\\).  \
- **Safeguards**: clamp \\(\\|P_i\\|\\) to saturation cap; prevent runaway monochrome bias.  \
- **Use**: Bee/Medieval Bee tracers exploit diffusion to pollinate schema hues.  \
\
---\
\
### **Residue Pressure Field**\
\\[\
\\rho_i = \\text\{softmax\}_\\text\{local\}\\big(\\overline\{\\text\{soot\}\}_\{\\mathcal\{W\}(i)\},\\;\\overline\{\\text\{ash\}\}_\{\\mathcal\{W\}(i)\},\\;\\overline\{\\sigma\}_\{\\mathcal\{W\}(i)\}\\big)\
\\]\
\
- **Interpretation**: local \'93soil pressure\'94 around node `i`, combining soot density, ash stability, and entropy.  \
- Normalized across neighborhood window \\(\\mathcal\{W\}(i)\\).  \
- **Use**:  \
  - High soot bias \uc0\u8594  Purification or Beetle decay.  \
  - High ash bias \uc0\u8594  Lift node (rebloom candidate).  \
  - High entropy bias \uc0\u8594  Whale/Owl scan + potential Fission.  \
\
---\
\
### Ops Notes\
- **Neighborhoods**: dynamic \'97 defined by both edges (structural) and k-NN proximity (geometric).  \
- **EMA factors**:  \
  - \uc0\u947  for tension update \u8712  [0.7, 0.95].  \
  - \uc0\u951  for pigment diffusion \u8712  [0.01, 0.1].  \
- **Budgeting**: all updates consume a motion/energy budget per tick.  \
- **Telemetry**: log distributions of \\(C_i, \\tau_\{ij\}, \\rho_i, P_i\\) each epoch for Owl audits + GUI overlays.\
}