{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Interfaces\
\
- **Schema**  \
  - **Consumes**: local tensions (`\uc0\u964 _ij`), coherence scores, cluster morphology.  \
  - **Produces**: weave/prune proposals, layer move requests (sink/lift).  \
  - **Constraints**: bounded by SHI (schema health must remain \uc0\u8805  threshold).  \
  - **Note**: Schema is the *cognitive compass*; topology executes spatial adjustments under its guidance.  \
\
- **Mycelial Layer**  \
  - **Consumes**: topological layout (edges, clusters, layers) as routing substrate.  \
  - **Produces**: energy/health deltas at nodes; metabolite flows along edges.  \
  - **Note**: Topology defines *where to send nutrients*, mycelium governs *how energy circulates*.  \
\
- **Bloom**  \
  - **Consumes**: lift/sink signals to adjust rebloom/decay cycles.  \
  - **Produces**: rebloom events, shimmer decay traces, fractal overlays for positioning.  \
  - **Note**: Blooms act as flowers in the garden; topology provides the soil and lattice.  \
\
- **Residue (Ash/Soot)**  \
  - **Consumes**: topology map for local residue clustering.  \
  - **Produces**: soot/ash pressures, pigment tints, nutrient bias coefficients.  \
  - **Note**: Residue fields bias whether nodes sink (decay) or lift (rebloom).  \
\
- **Tracers**  \
  - **Spider**: feeds edge tensions (`\uc0\u964 _ij`), flags brittle strands.  \
  - **Bee / Medieval Bee**: bias weaving across clusters and time; spread pigment vectors.  \
  - **Beetle**: proposes prune targets in soot-heavy regions.  \
  - **Whale**: surfaces macro curvature, suggests global reprojections.  \
  - **Owl**: records topological epochs, logs provenance of transforms.  \
  - **Note**: Tracers are ecological scouts; each archetype touches topology through its symbolic role.  \
\
- **Sigil Ring**  \
  - **Consumes**: operator requests (Weave, Prune, Fuse, Fission, Lift, Sink).  \
  - **Produces**: executed glyph stacks; provenance of symbolic invocations.  \
  - **Note**: All topology transforms are wrapped in symbolic grammar; no raw moves allowed in symbolic mode.  \
\
- **GUI**  \
  - **Consumes**: snapshot deltas (node positions, edge updates, cluster fusions/fissions).  \
  - **Produces**: visualization overlays for operators:  \
    - tension = glowing edges,  \
    - pigment = node coloration,  \
    - layer depth = z-axis or translucency,  \
    - motion trails = displacement vectors.  \
  - **Note**: GUI renders topology as a *living semantic landscape*, not just raw graph.  \
}