{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Operations (per tick)\
\
Semantic Topology runs a three-phase cycle inside every tick: **Update \uc0\u8594  Decide \u8594  Emit**.  \
This keeps the spatial shape of meaning aligned with latent embeddings, schema health, and ecological feedback.\
\
---\
\
### 1) Update\
- **Ingest**:  \
  - Embedding deltas (latent drift from Core/Bloom).  \
  - Global drift vector (Schema).  \
  - Bloom & Residue stats (reblooms, soot/ash transitions).  \
  - Tracer alerts (Spider tension, Beetle decay, Bee pollination, Whale macro-trends).  \
- **Recompute**:  \
  - Local coherence `C_i` for all nodes.  \
  - Edge tensions `\uc0\u964 _ij` and volatility scores.  \
  - Pigment field gradients (`\uc0\u8711 P`).  \
  - Residue pressure fields `\uc0\u961 _i`.  \
- **Soft Reproject**:  \
  - Nudge positions `x` toward latent embeddings (`e`) under motion budget.  \
  - Preserve edge continuity (no \'93tears\'94 for high-reliability edges).  \
\
---\
\
### 2) Decide\
- **Tension Response**  \
  - If `\uc0\u964 _ij` > threshold \u8594  schedule **Prune** (remove incoherent edge) or **Weave** (reinforce local manifold).  \
- **Cluster Morphology**  \
  - If cluster inertia + sustained co-fire high \uc0\u8594  **Fuse** clusters.  \
  - If entropy brittle + coherence low \uc0\u8594  **Fission** cluster.  \
- **Layer Moves**  \
  - If residue pressure high near surface \uc0\u8594  **Sink** candidate nodes (descent).  \
  - If surface lacks anchors but ash-rich nodes exist \uc0\u8594  **Lift** candidates (rebloom ascent).  \
- **Global Alignment**  \
  - If latent vs projected coherence drifts beyond tolerance \uc0\u8594  bounded **Reproject** across region.  \
- **Budget Enforcement**  \
  - Cap number of transforms per tick; overflow queued into next tick.  \
\
---\
\
### 3) Emit\
- **Topology Delta**  \
  - Node movements (\uc0\u916 x, \u916 layer), edge updates (weights, prunes, weaves).  \
  - Cluster fusions/fissions with new IDs and provenance.  \
- **Sigil Stack**  \
  - Translate chosen operators into symbolic invocations for the Sigil Ring.  \
  - Example: `Purification.prune_edge`, `Weaving.reinforce_thread`, `Memory.lift_node`.  \
- **Snapshot Broadcast**  \
  - GUI: render node/edge shifts, pigment diffusion, tension overlays.  \
  - Schema: provide updated coherence/tension metrics for SHI recalculation.  \
  - Owl: log provenance (trigger, operator, guard conditions, invoker).  \
\
---\
}