{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Tracer Ecosystem \'97 Distributed Cognitive Scouts\
\
## Purpose\
Distributed agents that monitor, probe, and feed signals back into DAWN\'92s cognition.  \
Each tracer represents a specific strategy of attention, bias, or ecological role.\
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- Why multiple specialized tracers instead of one generic auditor.  \
- Biological/ecological analogies (scout bees, crows, whales, ants, spiders, owls).  \
- Tracers as DAWN\'92s way of extending perception into corners of its own state space.\
\
---\
\
## Roles\
- **Crow** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  opportunistic scavenger, surfaces anomalies quickly.  \
- **Whale** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  deep diver, slow but broad contextual scans.  \
- **Ant** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  persistent micro-tracer, builds patterns from repetition.  \
- **Beetle** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  decay-oriented, tracks failures, errors, and pruning signals.  \
- **Spider** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  network tracer, tension-sensitive to schema drift.  \
- **Owl** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  long-memory auditor, logs dialogue and reflections.  \
- **Bee** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  schema pollinator, transfers nutrients/signals between modules.  \
- **Medieval Bee** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  historical anchor, traces archaic patterns for stability.\
\
---\
\
## Lifecycle\
1. **Spawn**  \
   Tracer instantiated in response to entropy, drift, or schema imbalance.  \
2. **Observe**  \
   Collects signals from memory residues, blooms, pulses, or schema edges.  \
3. **Report**  \
   Sends observations to event stream/logs; may trigger alerts.  \
4. **Retire**  \
   Volatile tracers dissolve after task; stable ones (Owl, Medieval Bee) persist longer.\
\
---\
\
## System Interactions\
- **Event Stream** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Tracers inject structured logs (JSON-like events).  \
- **Ash/Soot** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Beetle + Spider stir residues for reabsorption.  \
- **Mycelial Layer** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Bee pollinates schema nodes with tracer findings.  \
- **Forecasting Engine** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Whale feeds deep-context patterns into forecast vector.  \
- **Voice Evolution** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Owl influences tone/lexicon through long-term memory audit.\
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes & Safeguards\
- **Tracer Flood** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  too many spawn simultaneously, log overload.  \
  *Safeguard:* rate limit tracer spawns per tick.  \
\
- **False Positives** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Crow/Spider over-report noise as signals.  \
  *Safeguard:* SCUP filters weight reports by coherence.  \
\
- **Tracer Starvation** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Ant/Beetle fail to gather enough signals.  \
  *Safeguard:* retire early, recycle energy back to nutrient pool.  \
\
- **Persistence Drift** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  Owl or Medieval Bee cling too long, biasing schema.  \
  *Safeguard:* shimmer decay applies even to persistent tracers.\
\
---\
\
## Logs & Telemetry\
- **Tracer Alerts Log** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  structured entries (`type`, `severity`, `message`, `tick_id`).  \
- **Observations Field** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  memory updates, forecast adjustments, schema notes.  \
- **Spawn/Retire Counts** 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  number of active tracers by type per tick.  \
- GUI hooks: severity-coded tracer alerts (info/warn/critical).  \
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
1. Spawn Crow under entropy spike 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  confirm anomaly surfaced in event log.  \
2. Run Whale on deep schema state 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  confirm broad-context summary generated.  \
3. Stimulate high drift 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  confirm Spider tension alerts triggered.  \
4. Force tracer flood 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  confirm rate limiting engages.  \
5. Allow Owl to persist 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  confirm shimmer decay eventually retires it.  \
\
---\
}