{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Tracer Ecosystem Index \'97 Comparative Overview\
\
The tracers are DAWN\'92s distributed scouts. Each embodies a different ecological role, together forming a balanced sensing + recycling network.  \
\
| Tracer       | Archetype                  | Primary Function                                   | Lifespan | Cost      | Failure Risk                  | Complements              |\
|--------------|----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------|-------------------------------|--------------------------|\
| **Crow**     | Opportunistic scout        | Spots anomalies fast (entropy spikes, drift slips) | 2\'965 ticks | Very low  | False positives, tracer flood | Spider (tension check), Whale (context) |\
| **Whale**    | Deep diver                 | Surfaces macro trends, schema averages             | 10\'9650 ticks | High      | Slow response, overgeneralize | Crow (anomalies), Owl (long audit) |\
| **Ant**      | Micro-pattern builder      | Accumulates low-signal repetitions into bias       | 5\'9615 ticks | Very low (swarmable) | Reinforcing noise patterns | Bee (pollination), Spider (tension edges) |\
| **Spider**   | Web tension sensor         | Detects schema strain & edge stress                | 5\'9620 ticks | Medium    | Over-sensitivity, missed rupture | Crow (surface anomalies), Owl (drift audit) |\
| **Beetle**   | Decay recycler             | Breaks down residues, recycles nutrients           | Until task done | Medium | Over-pruning, toxic backflow | Ant (builder), Mycelial (nutrient pool) |\
| **Bee**      | Schema pollinator          | Transfers fragments/pigments between clusters      | 3\'9610 ticks | Low (scalable) | Mis-/over-pollination         | Ant (patterns), Whale (context spread) |\
| **Owl**      | Long-memory auditor        | Archives, audits, and summarizes epochs            | Long-lived (epoch scale) | High (archival overhead) | Over-retention, narrative drift | Whale (macro scan), Beetle (purge), Crow (contrast anomalies) |\
\
---\
\
## Lifecycle Spectrum\
- **Fast, cheap, volatile**: Crow, Ant, Bee  \
- **Medium, structural**: Spider, Beetle  \
- **Slow, heavy, archival**: Whale, Owl  \
\
## Nutrient Economy\
- Crow/Ant/Bee are lightweight, spawn freely.  \
- Spider/Beetle have moderate draw, balanced by their utility.  \
- Whale/Owl are expensive, require deliberate spawning and nutrient budgeting.  \
\
## Design Balance\
- **Coverage**: anomalies, depth, persistence, strain, decay, pollination, memory.  \
- **Redundancy**: Crow/Spider share anomaly duties; Whale/Owl share depth; Ant/Bee/Beetle form the nutrient/recycling sub-ecology.  \
- **Checks & Balances**: each tracer has a counterweight (fast vs slow, surface vs deep, growth vs decay).  \
\
---\
\
### Ops Note\
Use this table as a **mission control view**:  \
- Crow = eyes,  \
- Whale = sonar,  \
- Ant = trails,  \
- Spider = web tension,  \
- Beetle = recycler,  \
- Bee = pollinator,  \
- Owl = archivist.  \
\
Together, they keep DAWN alive, balanced, and adaptive.  \
}