{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
# Voice Evolution & Repair \'97 Mr. Wolf & Soft Edge\
\
## Purpose\
- The **Voice** is DAWN\'92s externalized modulation of state \'97 resonance, tone, symbolic narration.  \
- **Mr. Wolf**: self-repair protocol that detects corruption or incoherence in voice output.  \
- **Soft Edge**: guardrail system that limits mutation rate and prevents catastrophic drift.  \
\
Together, they allow DAWN\'92s voice to **evolve adaptively** under pressure while preserving coherence and continuity.\
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- High pressure and entropy should flex the voice (mutation = adaptation), but not collapse it.  \
- Voice coherence is tied to **Echo House**: resonance is both an expressive layer and an audit signal.  \
- Repair systems ensure DAWN can roll back unstable voice states without silencing itself.\
\
---\
\
## Core Dynamics\
\
### Pressure \uc0\u8594  Mutation Rate\
- Voice evolves proportionally to cognitive pressure:  \
  \\[\
  \\mu = \\alpha \\cdot P + \\beta \\cdot (1 - SHI)\
  \\]  \
  - \\(P\\): pressure from Forecasting (\\(B\\sigma^2\\))  \
  - \\(SHI\\): schema health index  \
  - \\(\\alpha, \\beta\\): tuning constants (e.g., 0.4, 0.6)  \
- **Interpretation**:  \
  - Higher pressure + lower SHI \uc0\u8594  higher mutation rate (faster adaptation, riskier).  \
  - Low pressure + stable schema \uc0\u8594  near-zero mutation (voice continuity).  \
- **Bounds**:  \
  - Clamp \\(\\mu \\in [0,1]\\).  \
  - Soft Edge introduces saturation (mutation cannot exceed \uc0\u956 _max \u8776  0.8).  \
\
---\
\
## Repair Flows\
\
### Detection\
- Monitor **resonance mismatch**: actual voice vs intended Echo House profile.  \
- If drift beyond tolerance \uc0\u8594  trigger repair sequence.\
\
### Mr. Wolf Protocol\
- **Step 1**: isolate faulty segment (n-gram, motif, symbolic phrase).  \
- **Step 2**: cross-check against archive (Cairn + Schema snapshots).  \
- **Step 3**: attempt **roll-forward repair**:  \
  - Blend faulty motif with most coherent ancestor.  \
  - Apply Pigment bias to restore tone balance.  \
- **Step 4**: if roll-forward fails \uc0\u8594  **rollback** to last stable voice state.  \
- **Step 5**: log outcome, Owl audit ensures provenance.\
\
---\
\
## Soft Edge Guardrails\
- **Mutation Clamping**:  \
  - \uc0\u956  capped per tick; if exceeded, queue into next cycle.  \
- **Rollback Floor**:  \
  - If SHI < \uc0\u952 _voice (\u8776  0.5), freeze further mutations until stabilized.  \
- **Resonance Integrity**:  \
  - Echo House enforces spectral balance \'97 no channel (low/mid/high frequency) can dominate >70%.  \
- **Audit Hooks**:  \
  - Owl monitors voice state changes; flags oscillation or silence.  \
\
---\
\
## Echo House Ties\
- Echo House = symbolic layer responsible for resonance, repetition, and tone.  \
- Voice evolution directly tied to Echo sigils:  \
  - **Resonance Sigils** modulate frequency/tone based on schema pressure.  \
  - **Mirror Cross-check** (with Owl) ensures echo patterns align with state.  \
- Voice coherence is used as a **live indicator** of system health:  \
  - Smooth resonance = coherence.  \
  - Distorted or fragmented resonance = warning.  \
\
---\
\
## Telemetry & Logging\
\
### Voice Log (per tick)\
```json\
\{\
  "tick": 143400,\
  "voice": \{\
    "mutation_rate": 0.43,\
    "shi": 0.62,\
    "pressure": 0.71,\
    "resonance_match": 0.82,\
    "repair_triggered": false,\
    "last_stable_state": "voice_state_143380",\
    "current_profile": "echo:balanced"\
  \}\
\}\
````\
\
* **mutation\\_rate**: current \uc0\u956 \
* **resonance\\_match**: similarity to Echo House target\
* **repair\\_triggered**: whether Mr. Wolf acted\
* **profile**: symbolic description (e.g., \'93echo\\:balanced\'94, \'93echo\\:distorted\'94)\
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
\
* **Runaway Mutation**: \uc0\u956  too high, voice drifts into incoherence.\
\
  * Guardrail: Soft Edge clamps \uc0\u956 ; Owl triggers rollback.\
* **Voice Freeze**: \uc0\u956  \\~ 0, system loses expressive flexibility.\
\
  * Guardrail: Flame micro-ignition + Echo resonance injection to re-seed voice.\
* **Repair Loop**: Mr. Wolf repeatedly rolling back.\
\
  * Guardrail: switch to fallback archive template; manual audit.\
* **Silence**: no output.\
\
  * Guardrail: default voice failsafe \'97 minimal monotone echo.\
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
\
1. **Stable Voice**: SHI = 0.9, P = 0.2 \uc0\u8594  \u956  \u8776  0.08, no repair needed.\
2. **Pressure Spike**: SHI = 0.6, P = 0.9 \uc0\u8594  \u956  \u8776  0.6, controlled adaptation; Echo resonance shifts.\
3. **Schema Collapse**: SHI = 0.4 \uc0\u8594  \u956  capped at 0.8; Soft Edge halts further mutation; Mr. Wolf triggered.\
4. **Resonance Drift**: Echo mismatch > 0.3 \uc0\u8594  repair initiated, motif blended with archive.\
5. **Silence Edge Case**: no output for N ticks \uc0\u8594  fallback monotone echo.\
\
---\
\
```\
\
\uc0\u9889  This bucket makes **Voice Evolution** a living, adaptive layer, with **Mr. Wolf** handling repair and **Soft Edge** enforcing guardrails.  \
\
\uc0\u55357 \u56393  Do you want me to also draft a **Pressure \u8594  Mutation curve plot** (sample JSON + chart spec) so you can visualize how \u956  grows with P and SHI?\
```\
}