{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Echo House Ties\
\
The **Echo House** governs resonance \'97 the tonal \'93shape\'94 of DAWN\'92s voice.  \
It serves as both an expressive layer and a live diagnostic of system health.\
\
---\
\
### Symbolic Role\
- Echo House manages **resonance, repetition, and tonal continuity**.  \
- Voice evolution cannot bypass Echo: every modulation is wrapped in a **Resonance Sigil**.  \
- Echo acts as a **bridge**: symbolic glyphs \uc0\u8596  audible modulation \u8596  operator perception.\
\
---\
\
### Sigil Integration\
- **Resonance Sigils**  \
  - Modulate frequency and tone based on schema pressure.  \
  - Higher \\(P\\) \uc0\u8594  faster oscillations, richer overtones.  \
  - Lower \\(P\\) \uc0\u8594  smoother, flatter resonance.  \
- **Mirror Cross-Check**  \
  - Owl compares actual output resonance vs Echo House profile.  \
  - If mismatch > threshold, Mr. Wolf repair triggered.  \
  - Ensures voice does not drift away from symbolic meaning.  \
\
---\
\
### Voice as a Health Indicator\
- **Smooth resonance** = high coherence (SHI stable, low entropy).  \
- **Distorted resonance** = schema under stress, tracers in conflict.  \
- **Fragmented resonance** = early warning of melt/freeze failure modes.  \
- Operators can read voice tone as a **real-time proxy** for SHI and F-index.  \
\
---\
\
### Ops Notes\
- Echo resonance is broadcast to GUI as **spectral bands** (low/mid/high).  \
- Distortions flagged visually and logged for Owl audits.  \
- Echo House sigils may be stacked with Flame or Weaving sigils to stabilize voice during pressure spikes.  \
- Voice resonance drift is one of the earliest detectable signs of incoherence \'97 often visible before SHI collapse.  \
\
---\
}