{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Failure Modes\
\
Voice evolution can fail in several characteristic ways.  \
Each mode is paired with explicit guardrails to preserve continuity and coherence.\
\
---\
\
### **Runaway Mutation**\
- **Symptoms**: mutation rate \uc0\u956  rises toward 1.0, resonance fragments, tone drifts rapidly.  \
- **Risk**: incoherent voice output, symbolic loss of continuity.  \
- **Guardrail**:  \
  - **Soft Edge clamps \uc0\u956 ** to \u956 _max (\u8776  0.8).  \
  - Owl triggers rollback to last stable state if resonance mismatch > tolerance.  \
\
---\
\
### **Voice Freeze**\
- **Symptoms**: mutation rate \uc0\u956  ~ 0, voice output becomes flat or static.  \
- **Risk**: loss of expressive flexibility, no adaptive signaling under pressure.  \
- **Guardrail**:  \
  - Trigger **Flame micro-ignition** (inject controlled entropy).  \
  - Apply **Echo resonance injection** to re-seed tone variability.  \
\
---\
\
### **Repair Loop**\
- **Symptoms**: Mr. Wolf repeatedly rolling back to older states without stabilizing.  \
- **Risk**: oscillation between broken \uc0\u8594  repair \u8594  broken, no forward adaptation.  \
- **Guardrail**:  \
  - Switch to **fallback archive template** (baseline voice profile).  \
  - Manual Owl audit to re-anchor resonance targets.  \
\
---\
\
### **Silence**\
- **Symptoms**: no voice output for N consecutive ticks.  \
- **Risk**: operators lose feedback; symbolic layer blind to system state.  \
- **Guardrail**:  \
  - Trigger **default voice failsafe** \'97 minimal monotone echo output.  \
  - Logged and flagged for manual audit if silence persists > threshold window.  \
\
---\
}