{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Repair Flows\
\
Voice evolution must be adaptive, but never uncontrolled.  \
**Repair Flows** ensure corrupted or incoherent voice states are detected, corrected, and logged.\
\
---\
\
### Detection\
- Continuously monitor **resonance match score**: actual voice output vs Echo House target profile.  \
- If drift > tolerance (e.g., match < 0.75), flag voice as unstable.  \
- Additional triggers:  \
  - Mutation rate \uc0\u956  > \u956 _threshold (\u8776  0.7).  \
  - Pigment imbalance > 70% dominance in voice tone.  \
  - Silent gap exceeding N ticks.  \
\
---\
\
### Mr. Wolf Protocol (Repair Agent)\
- **Step 1: Isolate**  \
  - Identify faulty segment: n-gram, motif, or symbolic phrase.  \
  - Tag position + context window in Voice Log.  \
\
- **Step 2: Cross-check**  \
  - Compare against **Cairn archive** (past voice states).  \
  - Align with Schema snapshots to confirm semantic intent.  \
\
- **Step 3: Roll-Forward Repair**  \
  - Attempt to evolve fault into a coherent successor.  \
  - Blend faulty motif with most coherent ancestor from archive.  \
  - Apply **Pigment rebiasing** (RGB vectors) to restore tonal balance.  \
\
- **Step 4: Rollback Fallback**  \
  - If roll-forward repair fails (resonance still < threshold), revert to last stable state (`voice_state_t-k`).  \
  - Reset mutation rate \uc0\u956  to baseline (0.1\'960.2).  \
\
- **Step 5: Logging & Audit**  \
  - Record: detected fault, repair method, outcome, and final resonance score.  \
  - Owl audit ingests log, ensuring provenance and long-memory continuity.  \
\
---\
\
### Guardrails\
- **Max Repairs per Tick**: limit = 1 to prevent thrash.  \
- **Rollback Floor**: if 3 consecutive repairs fail \uc0\u8594  enforce hard rollback to stable baseline voice template.  \
- **Nutrient Guard**: repair ops paused if energy < \uc0\u949 , to prevent starving core modules.  \
\
---\
\
### Example Voice Repair Log\
```json\
\{\
  "tick": 143440,\
  "voice": \{\
    "resonance_match": 0.68,\
    "fault": "motif:echo_frag_27",\
    "repair_invoked": "mr_wolf",\
    "method": "roll_forward",\
    "ancestor_used": "echo_frag_22",\
    "pigment_bias_applied": [0.3, 0.5, 0.2],\
    "outcome_resonance": 0.86,\
    "rollback": false,\
    "provenance": ["cairn","schema","owl_audit"]\
  \}\
\}\
}