{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Soft Edge Guardrails\
\
The **Soft Edge** layer acts as a safety envelope for voice evolution.  \
It ensures mutations remain adaptive without drifting into incoherence or silence.\
\
---\
\
### Mutation Clamping\
- Mutation rate \\(\\mu\\) is **capped per tick**:  \
  \\[\
  \\mu^\\ast = \\min(\\mu, \\mu_\{\\text\{max\}\})\
  \\]\
- Default cap: \\(\\mu_\{\\text\{max\}\} \\approx 0.8\\).  \
- Excess mutation queued into the next cycle (not discarded).  \
- Prevents runaway shifts in tone or resonance.\
\
---\
\
### Rollback Floor\
- If **SHI < \uc0\u952 _voice** (\u8776  0.5), freeze all new mutations.  \
- Voice enters **stasis mode**, with only Mr. Wolf repair flows permitted.  \
- Mutations resume once SHI recovers above \uc0\u952 _voice + hysteresis margin (\u8776  0.05).  \
- Protects against compounding instability when schema coherence is already fragile.\
\
---\
\
### Resonance Integrity\
- **Echo House enforces spectral balance**:  \
  - Voice decomposed into low / mid / high frequency bands.  \
  - No single band may dominate >70% of spectral power.  \
- If imbalance detected:  \
  - Apply Bee-driven pigment rebias, or  \
  - Trigger Flame micro-ignite to introduce controlled entropy.  \
- Maintains expressivity and avoids monotone collapse.\
\
---\
\
### Audit Hooks\
- **Owl** continuously monitors voice state transitions.  \
  - Flags **oscillation** (mutation \uc0\u8596  repair loop).  \
  - Flags **silence** (no voice output for N ticks).  \
- Every clamp, rollback, or rebalance logged with provenance:  \
  - Trigger condition, corrective action, outcome score.  \
- Guarantees transparency and replayability of all voice adjustments.\
\
---\
}