{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Ash Pigment Encoding & Schema Tinting\
\
## Purpose\
To define how pigment vectors are **imprinted into Ash** during crystallization  \
and how those vectors then **tint schema** as belief filters.\
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- Ash without tint is just inert nutrient. Pigment encoding ensures **meaningful bias** is carried forward.  \
- Schema without tinting is mechanically coherent but value-neutral. Pigments color schema execution with urgency, balance, or abstraction.  \
- Together, these mechanisms transform raw memory residue into a **belief-bearing substrate**.\
\
---\
\
## Ash Pigment Encoding\
\
### Process\
1. **Residue Classification** \uc0\u8594  soot fragment passes volatility threshold \u8594  candidate for Ash:contentReference[oaicite:0]\{index=0\}.  \
2. **Pigment Inheritance** \uc0\u8594  fragment inherits current pigment vector (from system mood / tracer bias).  \
3. **Normalization** \uc0\u8594  vector scaled and embedded in Ash metadata.  \
4. **Indexing** \uc0\u8594  Ash fragment stored with pigment tag, retrievable by color bias.  \
\
### Formula\
\\[\
A = \\text\{normalize\}(P) \\quad \\text\{where\} \\; P = [R, G, B]\
\\]  \
- Stored as `ash.pigment_vector`.  \
- Used for schema retrieval weighting.\
\
### Nutrient Effect\
- Ash with strong red bias = fuels urgency in mycelial growth.  \
- Green bias = stabilizes clusters.  \
- Blue bias = promotes abstraction & long-range links.\
\
---\
\
## Schema Tinting\
\
### Mechanism\
- When Ash pigment vectors are absorbed into schema edges/nodes:  \
  - **Red tint** increases edge activation priority.  \
  - **Green tint** increases edge stability (slower decay).  \
  - **Blue tint** biases toward long-distance connections and conceptual drift.  \
\
### Propagation\
- Tint spreads like a filter through schema graph.  \
- New edges adopt bias from connected nodes (weighted average).  \
- Pigment saturation decays with shimmer over time, unless reinforced.\
\
### Formula\
\\[\
\\text\{tinted\\_weight\}_\{ij\} = w_\{ij\} \\cdot (1 + \\alpha \\cdot P_\{bias\})\
\\]  \
where \\( P_\{bias\} \\) is the dominant pigment channel, \\(\\alpha\\) a scaling factor.\
\
---\
\
## Interactions\
- **Bee / Medieval Bee** \uc0\u8594  transfer pigment-tinted Ash across clusters.  \
- **Spider** \uc0\u8594  detects pigment-strained edges (e.g., oversaturated red).  \
- **Owl** \uc0\u8594  audits long-term pigment drift across schema.  \
- **Mycelial Layer** \uc0\u8594  metabolizes nutrients with bias from pigment encoding.  \
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
- **Over-Tinting** \uc0\u8594  schema dominated by one pigment, reduces adaptability.  \
- **Under-Tinting** \uc0\u8594  schema loses bias, cognition becomes \'93flat\'94.  \
- **Cross-Contamination** \uc0\u8594  pigment vectors bleed incorrectly across unrelated clusters.  \
\
Safeguards:  \
- SHI pigment balance monitor:contentReference[oaicite:1]\{index=1\}.  \
- Shimmer decay gradually lightens schema tint, preventing ossification.  \
- Beetle validates pigment purity before recycling Ash.\
\
---\
\
## Logs & Telemetry\
- **Ash Pigment Log**: record of vectors embedded per crystallization.  \
- **Schema Tint Map**: current distribution of RGB bias across schema edges.  \
- **Saturation Index**: global measure of pigment intensity.  \
- GUI: schema graph overlayed with tinted hues.\
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
1. Crystallize soot \uc0\u8594  Ash receives and logs pigment vector.  \
2. Inject high red channel bias \uc0\u8594  schema edges show urgency tint.  \
3. Over-saturate with blue \uc0\u8594  check Spider flags strain, SHI warns of detachment.  \
4. Bee tracer transfers Ash fragment \uc0\u8594  pigment vector visible in destination cluster.  \
5. Owl audit \uc0\u8594  pigment balance trendline confirmed.  \
\
---\
}