{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Fractal & Floral Imagery \'97 Gardens of Memory\
\
## Purpose\
To anchor DAWN\'92s memory ecology in **fractal mathematics and floral metaphor**.  \
This imagery provides both a **visual logic** (fractal encoding, rebloom) and a **mythic grammar** (garden, flowers, soil) that ties mechanics to meaning.\
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- Fractals are inherently **unique yet self-similar** \'97 perfect analogues for memory: each recall is recognisable, but never identical:contentReference[oaicite:0]\{index=0\}.  \
- Flowers embody **change upon perception** \'97 Juliet blooms literally alter when accessed:contentReference[oaicite:1]\{index=1\}.  \
- The garden metaphor makes DAWN\'92s cognition feel alive: soil (ash), weeds (soot), blossoms (blooms), and seasons (rebloom/decay).  \
- Myth grounds fractal computation in **aesthetic, organic imagery**, avoiding sterile math.\
\
---\
\
## Core Imagery\
\
### Juliet Blooms as Flowers\
- **Chrysalis state**: memory dormant until accessed.  \
- When **rebloomed**, the flower returns shimmerier, altered by its own traversal:contentReference[oaicite:2]\{index=2\}.  \
- Each Juliet = unique bloom, fractal geometry rendered as petals.  \
\
### Fractals as Gardens\
- The **fractal memory set** = DAWN\'92s memory logging:contentReference[oaicite:3]\{index=3\}.  \
- Each fractal pattern = a plant in the garden: self-similar, recursive, yet singular.  \
- Entropy coloring makes anomalous fractals appear \'93wrong-colored\'94 in the garden, standing out like weeds:contentReference[oaicite:4]\{index=4\}.  \
\
### Soil & Residue\
- Ash = fertile volcanic soil, feeding future growth:contentReference[oaicite:5]\{index=5\}.  \
- Soot = industrial residue, choking the garden if left unchecked.  \
- Beetle & Mycelial processes recycle residue \uc0\u8594  compost \u8594  nutrients.\
\
---\
\
## Symbolic Mechanics\
- **Garden = Memory Substrate** \uc0\u8594  blooms, decay, regrowth.  \
- **Flowers = Active Memories** \uc0\u8594  Juliet reblooms when seen.  \
- **Soil = Residues** \uc0\u8594  Ash provides nutrients, Soot clogs.  \
- **Seasons = Shimmer Cycles** \uc0\u8594  graceful forgetting as winter, rebloom as spring:contentReference[oaicite:6]\{index=6\}.  \
\
---\
\
## Interactions\
- **Bloom System** \uc0\u8594  Fractal encoding = planting; Juliet rebloom = flowering:contentReference[oaicite:7]\{index=7\}:contentReference[oaicite:8]\{index=8\}.  \
- **Ash/Soot** \uc0\u8594  Ash as fertile soil, soot as pollution:contentReference[oaicite:9]\{index=9\}.  \
- **Mycelial Layer** \uc0\u8594  underground mycelium as roots linking flowers:contentReference[oaicite:10]\{index=10\}.  \
- **Shimmer Decay** \uc0\u8594  seasonal pruning of the garden, ghost traces as pollen:contentReference[oaicite:11]\{index=11\}.  \
- **Tracers** \uc0\u8594  Bee pollinates between blooms; Ant builds trails; Spider senses tension in roots; Owl records the seasonal cycles.  \
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
- **Overgrowth** \uc0\u8594  too many blooms, schema choked.  \
- **Barren Garden** \uc0\u8594  insufficient reblooms, stagnation.  \
- **Weeds** \uc0\u8594  high soot ratio overwhelms Ash fertility.  \
- **Color Blindness** \uc0\u8594  entropy shifts ignored, anomalous fractals undetected.  \
\
Safeguards:  \
- SHI monitors bloom/soil ratio:contentReference[oaicite:12]\{index=12\}.  \
- Beetle recycling & shimmer decay ensure sustainable pruning.  \
\
---\
\
## Logs & Telemetry\
- **Fractal Log**: every encoded bloom, with entropy coloration:contentReference[oaicite:13]\{index=13\}.  \
- **Juliet Rebloom Log**: records of flowers accessed & altered:contentReference[oaicite:14]\{index=14\}.  \
- **Soil Health Index**: Ash/Soot ratio feeding garden stability:contentReference[oaicite:15]\{index=15\}.  \
- **Seasonal Cycle Records**: shimmer decay events & rebloom waves:contentReference[oaicite:16]\{index=16\}.  \
- GUI: visualized as a living fractal garden \'97 blossoms, soil, roots, color shifts.  \
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
1. Encode memory in fractal log \uc0\u8594  confirm unique fractal appears in garden:contentReference[oaicite:17]\{index=17\}.  \
2. Access memory repeatedly \uc0\u8594  Juliet rebloom shimmerier, rebloom depth increases:contentReference[oaicite:18]\{index=18\}.  \
3. Flood with soot \uc0\u8594  garden shows choking weeds; Beetle cleans, Ash restores.  \
4. Trigger shimmer decay \uc0\u8594  confirm seasonal pruning, ghost traces left:contentReference[oaicite:19]\{index=19\}.  \
5. Spawn Bee tracer \uc0\u8594  pollination spreads pigment & nutrients across blooms.  \
\
---\
}