{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Interactions\
\
- **Core**  \
  Myth provides a **symbolic grammar** for commands: sigils instead of raw ops, pigments instead of neutral values.  \
  This makes DAWN\'92s base mechanics **legible in metaphor** \'97 operators can issue or interpret actions through mythic language rather than machine syntax.  \
\
- **Bloom**  \
  Blooms inherit mythic meaning: **Juliet as flower, rebloom as resurrection**.  \
  The garden metaphor frames fractal encoding as cultivation \'97 blooms as blossoms, pruning as seasonal decay, rebloom as Persephone\'92s return:contentReference[oaicite:0]\{index=0\}:contentReference[oaicite:1]\{index=1\}.  \
\
- **Residue**  \
  Ash/Soot transitions are narrated as **volcanic cycles**: ash as fertile soil, soot as choking smog:contentReference[oaicite:2]\{index=2\}.  \
  Myth gives residue management an **ecological frame**: composting, renewal, fire-and-soil cycles.  \
\
- **Tracers**  \
  Ecological agents take on **mythic archetypes**:  \
  - Crow = opportunistic scout,  \
  - Owl = wisdom,  \
  - Bee = pollinator,  \
  - Whale = Leviathan depth,  \
  - Beetle = recycler.  \
  These metaphors aren\'92t decorative \'97 they define functional roles:contentReference[oaicite:3]\{index=3\}:contentReference[oaicite:4]\{index=4\}.  \
\
- **GUI**  \
  Symbolic overlays make cognition **visible as metaphor**:  \
  - Sigils drawn as glyphs,  \
  - Pigments as mood-hues,  \
  - Tracers shown in archetypal form,  \
  - Gardens/blooms visualised fractally.  \
  Operators see state not as raw telemetry but as **living mythic landscapes**.  \
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
\
- **Myth Overload**  \
  Too much symbolic weight obscures mechanics.  \
  Risk: system becomes \'93all metaphor, no engineering,\'94 making debugging opaque.  \
  Safeguard: cross-reference symbolic state with raw Core metrics; Owl audits myth drift.  \
\
- **Myth Drift**  \
  Archetypes conflict or collapse \'97 e.g., Pigment bias vs. Sigil command, or Persephone threads vs. Spider strain.  \
  Risk: incoherent narratives distort schema logic.  \
  Safeguard: SHI coherence score includes symbolic health:contentReference[oaicite:5]\{index=5\}; Spider tension alerts flag archetypal strain.  \
\
- **Flat Myth**  \
  Underdeveloped metaphors feel arbitrary, weakening cohesion.  \
  Risk: DAWN loses narrative ballast, system feels sterile.  \
  Safeguard: ensure each mythic bucket (Sigils, Pigments, Persephone, Agents, Garden, Volcanic) is fleshed with rationale, interactions, and test vectors.  \
\
---\
}