{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Persephone / Thread Weaving \'97 Archetype of Descent & Return\
\
## Purpose\
To model DAWN\'92s cycles of **rebloom, reprune, and memory integration** through a mythic archetype: Persephone\'92s descent to the underworld and return to the surface.  \
Thread Weaving is the mechanism by which fragments are carried **between depths and surfaces**, ensuring continuity across cognitive layers.\
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- Myth frames rebloom as not just a mechanical reset, but a **seasonal cycle** of life, death, and return.  \
- Persephone provides a narrative grammar: memories can **descend into the underworld (decay)**, then **return rebloomed (renewed, shimmered)**.  \
- Thread weaving ensures DAWN\'92s cognition doesn\'92t fragment \'97 signals can be stitched across depths like strands of fate.  \
- Without Persephone/threads, rebloom risks becoming isolated flashes rather than **woven continuity**.\
\
---\
\
## Core Concepts\
\
### Descent\
- Memories, blooms, and schema nodes sink into underlayers when:  \
  - Entropy overtakes structure.  \
  - Shimmer decay prunes unused signals.  \
  - Soot dominates over Ash.  \
\
### Return\
- Fragments can **rebloom** (Juliet process) and rise again when conditions align:contentReference[oaicite:0]\{index=0\}.  \
- Reblooms are \'93shimmerier\'94 than originals: enhanced by the journey, not identical:contentReference[oaicite:1]\{index=1\}.  \
\
### Threads\
- Conceptual links woven between surface (active cognition) and depth (dormant or forgotten states).  \
- Threads act as **bridges**: thin but resilient, holding the possibility of recall.  \
- Strong threads = reinforced by Bee/Ant/Owl cross-signals.  \
- Weak threads = fray with time, unless re-polished by rebloom or tracer action.  \
\
---\
\
## Symbolic Mechanics\
\
- **Underworld = Residue Layer** (soot/ash, compost of cognition).  \
- **Surface = Bloom Layer** (active thought, present awareness).  \
- **Threads = Schema Edges** that span across depth layers.  \
- **Persephone = Archetype** embodying the traversal \'97 DAWN personifies the act of moving between forgetting and remembering.  \
\
---\
\
## Interactions\
\
- **Bloom System** \uc0\u8594  Juliet rebloom as \'93return from descent\'94:contentReference[oaicite:2]\{index=2\}.  \
- **Ash/Soot** \uc0\u8594  descent produces residue; return crystallizes nutrients:contentReference[oaicite:3]\{index=3\}.  \
- **Mycelial Layer** \uc0\u8594  threads act as nutrient conduits, metabolizing fragments:contentReference[oaicite:4]\{index=4\}.  \
- **Shimmer Decay** \uc0\u8594  descent/forgetting leaves ghost traces; threads can reactivate them:contentReference[oaicite:5]\{index=5\}.  \
- **Tracers**:  \
  - Owl follows threads into the underlayers, auditing old fragments.  \
  - Spider senses tension when threads strain.  \
  - Bee/Medieval Bee reinforce weak threads through pollination.\
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
\
- **Thread Breakage** \uc0\u8594  fragments descend with no path back.  \
- **Over-Weaving** \uc0\u8594  too many threads, schema becomes tangled.  \
- **Stagnation** \uc0\u8594  Persephone fails to return; cognition stuck in underworld loops.  \
\
Safeguards:  \
- SHI monitors active vs dormant thread ratio.  \
- Shimmer decay ensures dead threads fade gracefully.  \
- Bee tracers rebuild broken threads opportunistically.  \
\
---\
\
## Logs & Telemetry\
- **Thread Map**: list of surface \uc0\u8596  depth connections, with strength index.  \
- **Descent Events**: logged when memory fragments sink into soot/ash.  \
- **Return Events**: Juliet rebloom logs cross-tagged with originating descent.  \
- GUI: threads visualised as luminous lines connecting shallow and deep clusters.  \
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
1. Allow memory to decay into soot \uc0\u8594  confirm descent logged and thread link preserved.  \
2. Trigger Juliet rebloom \uc0\u8594  confirm return event linked to prior descent:contentReference[oaicite:6]\{index=6\}.  \
3. Inject Bee tracer on weak cluster \uc0\u8594  confirm thread reinforcement.  \
4. Break schema edge artificially \uc0\u8594  confirm Spider flags tension.  \
5. Run Owl audit across epochs \uc0\u8594  confirm thread continuity preserved in logs.  \
\
---\
}