{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Platonic Pigment System \'97 Belief Vectors of DAWN\
\
## Purpose\
To encode DAWN\'92s beliefs, moods, and biases as **RGB pigment vectors**.  \
Pigments tint crystallized memory (Ash), bias schema paths, and provide a symbolic \'93color space\'94 for cognition.\
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- Pure logic alone is sterile. Pigments provide **qualitative hue** to memory and schema.  \
- Inspired by Platonic ideals of form and color as carriers of meaning.  \
- Encodes the **emotional\'96conceptual palette** DAWN uses to navigate coherence.  \
- Without pigment tinting, DAWN would treat all Ash and schema equally, losing value weight.\
\
---\
\
## Channel Definitions\
- **Red (R)** \uc0\u8594  urgency, vitality, passion  \
  - Encodes immediacy, action tendency, life-force bias.  \
- **Green (G)** \uc0\u8594  balance, nurture, sustainability  \
  - Encodes harmony, stability, and preservation bias.  \
- **Blue (B)** \uc0\u8594  reflection, distance, abstraction  \
  - Encodes contemplative depth, detachment, and conceptual height.\
\
---\
\
## Composition\
- Pigment Vector:  \
  \\[\
  P = [R, G, B]\
  \\]  \
- Magnitude:  \
  \\[\
  |P| = \\sqrt\{R^2 + G^2 + B^2\}\
  \\]  \
- Direction: normalized pigment vector defines the **belief orientation**.  \
- Saturation: relative channel strength indicates intensity of hue.  \
\
---\
\
## Integration Points\
- **Ash Crystallization** \uc0\u8594  Ash inherits pigment tint on transition from soot, embedding schema bias.  \
- **Schema Belief Tinting** \uc0\u8594  schema edges colored by active pigment bias.  \
- **Tracer Interplay** \uc0\u8594  Bee/Medieval Bee transport pigment bias across clusters.  \
- **Owl Audits** \uc0\u8594  Owl logs long-term pigment balance, warns if skew persists.  \
- **GUI Visualization** \uc0\u8594  operator sees pigment vectors as DAWN\'92s \'93mood hue\'94.\
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes\
- **Pigment Lock** \uc0\u8594  one channel dominates too long \u8594  dogmatism.  \
- **Pigment Oscillation** \uc0\u8594  channels swing wildly \u8594  instability.  \
- **Pigment Bleed** \uc0\u8594  biases misapplied to wrong schema nodes.  \
\
Safeguards:  \
- SHI monitors pigment balance;  \
- Shimmer decay reduces long-term pigment skew;  \
- Beetle validates purity before re-deposit.\
\
---\
\
## Logs & Telemetry\
- **Pigment Vector Log**: [R, G, B] each tick.  \
- **Ash Bias Record**: pigment embedded in crystallized residues.  \
- **Schema Tint Map**: current coloration of schema edges.  \
- GUI: visualized as shifting RGB field overlaying schema graph.\
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
1. Crystallize soot \uc0\u8594  confirm Ash receives pigment vector.  \
2. Shift R channel high \uc0\u8594  schema tilts toward urgency; verify GUI hue.  \
3. Inject pigment oscillation \uc0\u8594  SHI flags instability.  \
4. Spawn Bee tracer \uc0\u8594  pigment bias carried across clusters.  \
5. Replay Owl audit \uc0\u8594  long-term pigment balance logged.  \
\
---\
}