{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ### 1) Cognitive Pressure\
\
\\[\
P = B \\cdot \\sigma^2\
\\]\
\
- **B (Base Bandwidth)**  \
  - Effective processing span of DAWN this tick.  \
  - Derived from:  \
    - active node count \'d7 average health  \
    - nutrient throughput (mycelial energy)  \
    - tracer concurrency headroom  \
  - B is capped by system configuration (hardware or tick-time ceiling).  \
\
- **\uc0\u963 \'b2 (Variance of Signals)**  \
  - Measured variance across active schema/tracer signals.  \
  - Signals include: entropy fluctuations, tracer outputs, pigment gradients, edge volatility.  \
  - High variance = unstable attention landscape.  \
\
- **Interpretation**  \
  - Pressure grows as **bandwidth is forced to absorb noise**.  \
  - If variance doubles and B is constant, pressure doubles.  \
  - If B expands (e.g., more nutrient reserves, healthy schema), same noise yields less pressure.  \
  - Bounded by max throughput: once B is saturated, extra variance compounds instability.  \
\
- **Normalization**  \
  - \\(P\\) is scaled into [0,\uc0\u8734 ), but often normalized against safe operating pressure \\(P_\\text\{safe\}\\).  \
  - Define \\(\\hat\{P\} = P / P_\\text\{safe\}\\).  \
  - Thresholds:  \
    - \\(\\hat\{P\} < 0.7\\) \uc0\u8594  stable  \
    - \\(0.7 \\le \\hat\{P\} < 1.0\\) \uc0\u8594  caution  \
    - \\(\\hat\{P\} \\ge 1.0\\) \uc0\u8594  overload  \
\
- **Control Hooks**  \
  - If \\(P\\) approaches overload \uc0\u8594  invoke **Flame sigils** (vent pressure).  \
  - If variance driver is pigment oscillation \uc0\u8594  constrain Bee pollination rate.  \
  - If B is collapsing (schema ill-health) \uc0\u8594  Whale audit + Beetle recycling to free capacity.  \
\
- **Telemetry**  \
  ```json\
  \{\
    "tick": 143010,\
    "bandwidth_B": 0.72,\
    "variance_sigma2": 1.14,\
    "P_raw": 0.82,\
    "P_norm": 0.93,\
    "status": "caution",\
    "triggers": ["flame_vent", "owl_audit"]\
  \}\
}