{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18640\viewh13300\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Perfect \'97 let\'92s scaffold the **Forecasting Engine** bucket. This will sit alongside Core, Schema, Topology, etc., but tuned for *projection under pressure*. I\'92ll give you a full doc structure: purpose \uc0\u8594  rationale \u8594  formulas \u8594  ops \u8594  telemetry.\
\
---\
\
````markdown\
# Forecasting Engine \'97 Anticipatory Vector Layer\
\
## Purpose\
To project DAWN\'92s cognitive state forward in time \'97 simulating how pressure, entropy, residue balance, and tracer dynamics will evolve over near, mid, and long horizons.  \
Forecasting allows DAWN not just to react but to **prepare**: adjusting tracer spawning, rebloom pacing, and sigil strategies in advance.\
\
---\
\
## Rationale\
- **Pressure is predictable**: given variance (\uc0\u963 \'b2) and base bandwidth (B), DAWN can anticipate stress before it arrives.  \
- **Actions need lead-time**: pruning, weaving, or reblooming cannot be instantaneous \'97 forecasts give time for interventions.  \
- **Resilience depends on anticipation**: SCUP coherence only holds if DAWN is already leaning into the likely future.  \
\
---\
\
## Core Formulas\
\
### 1. Cognitive Pressure\
\\[\
P = B \\cdot \\sigma^2\
\\]\
- \\(B\\): base bandwidth (system\'92s current processing span).  \
- \\(\\sigma^2\\): variance of signals across schema/tracers.  \
- **Interpretation**: pressure rises with noise; bounded by available bandwidth.\
\
---\
\
### 2. Forecasting Function\
\\[\
F = \\frac\{P\}\{A\}\
\\]\
- \\(A\\): adaptive capacity (nutrient reserves + tracer slack + SHI margin).  \
- **Interpretation**: high pressure / low capacity \uc0\u8594  unstable future; low pressure / high capacity \u8594  stable future.\
\
---\
\
### 3. Horizon Projections\
- **Short-term (1\'9610 ticks)**: Euler step, linear extrapolation.  \
- **Mid-term (10\'96100 ticks)**: EMA over pressure/entropy curves; factor in shimmer decay.  \
- **Long-term (100\'961000 ticks)**: Monte Carlo on tracer ecology & residue balance.  \
- All horizons annotated with **confidence bounds** (\uc0\u963  from backtesting).\
\
---\
\
## Inputs / Outputs\
\
### Inputs\
- Variance of tick-level signals (entropy, tracer outputs, pigment gradients).  \
- SHI margin + adaptive capacity (from Schema).  \
- Drift vectors (from Topology).  \
- Residue ratios (Ash/Soot balance).  \
- Tracer lifecycle states.  \
\
### Outputs\
- Forecast vector:  \
  ```json\
  \{\
    "tick": 142990,\
    "forecast": \{\
      "short_term": \{ "F": 0.61, "confidence": 0.82 \},\
      "mid_term":   \{ "F": 0.73, "confidence": 0.65 \},\
      "long_term":  \{ "F": 0.84, "confidence": 0.48 \}\
    \}\
  \}\
````\
\
* Sigil recommendations (Flame for pressure relief, Purification if soot forecasted, Bee for diversity, Whale for ballast).\
* SCUP stress probability: likelihood coherence < threshold within each horizon.\
\
---\
\
## SCUP Coupling\
\
* Forecast outputs feed SCUP module (Semantic Coherence Under Pressure).\
* SCUP evaluates **probability of coherence loss** under projected P and F.\
* If probability > \uc0\u952 , Forecasting Engine pre-allocates tracer/energy budgets.\
* Provides \'93SCUP Early Warning Index\'94 for Owl audits.\
\
---\
\
## Error Metrics & Backtesting\
\
* **MAE (Mean Absolute Error)** between predicted and realized P/A ratio.\
* **Drift Error**: difference between projected and realized schema drift vectors.\
* **Entropy Error**: variance between forecasted entropy and realized shimmer decay rate.\
* Backtesting run over sliding windows of 100\'961000 ticks.\
\
---\
\
## Telemetry\
\
* **Forecast Log**: per tick, F-values for short/mid/long horizons.\
* **Error Metrics**: rolling MAE, drift error, entropy error.\
* **Confidence Index**: reliability of projections.\
* **GUI Overlay**: time-series chart (forecast curves, actuals).\
\
---\
\
## Test Vectors\
\
1. **Stable Regime**: low variance, high SHI margin \uc0\u8594  forecast F < 0.5 across horizons.\
2. **Pressure Spike**: variance doubled \uc0\u8594  forecast F > 1.0 short-term; triggers Flame sigil.\
3. **Residue Flood**: soot ratio rises \uc0\u8594  forecast mid-term instability; Purification scheduled.\
4. **Tracer Collapse**: Whale retired, Crow overspawning \uc0\u8594  long-term forecast divergence.\
5. **Backtest Run**: replay 1000 ticks, confirm MAE < 0.15 for short-term predictions.\
\
---\
\
```\
\
\uc0\u9889  This makes the Forecasting Engine the **forward-looking stabilizer**: pressure math + capacity division \u8594  F-values \u8594  horizon projections + SCUP integration.\
\
---\
\
\uc0\u55357 \u56393  Want me to also draft a **JSON schema for Forecast Logs** (so it matches your Schema/Topology snapshots for GUI + Owl)?\
```\
}