{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Inputs / Outputs\
\
### Inputs\
The Forecasting Engine consumes multi-layer signals each tick:\
\
- **Variance of tick-level signals**  \
  - Entropy fluctuations, tracer outputs, pigment gradients.  \
  - Aggregated into \uc0\u963 \'b2 term for Cognitive Pressure \\(P = B\u963 ^2\\).  \
\
- **SHI margin + Adaptive Capacity (A)** (from Schema)  \
  - Residual headroom after accounting for entropy, edge volatility, tracer divergence.  \
  - Determines denominator in \\(F = P/A\\).  \
\
- **Drift Vectors** (from Semantic Topology)  \
  - Global drift direction & magnitude; used for alignment forecasts.  \
  - Helps detect when short-term stability masks long-term divergence.  \
\
- **Residue Ratios** (Ash/Soot balance)  \
  - Local soil health: nutrient fertility vs choking volatility.  \
  - Shapes probability of Lift (rebloom) vs Sink (decay).  \
\
- **Tracer Lifecycle States**  \
  - Active counts and slack capacity for Crow, Spider, Bee, Whale, Owl, Beetle.  \
  - Forecast engine uses lifecycle dynamics for Monte Carlo long-term projections.  \
\
---\
\
### Outputs\
The Forecasting Engine produces both **quantitative projections** and **symbolic recommendations**:\
\
- **Forecast Vector**\
  ```json\
  \{\
    "tick": 142990,\
    "forecast": \{\
      "short_term": \{ "F": 0.61, "confidence": 0.82, "risk": "stable" \},\
      "mid_term":   \{ "F": 0.73, "confidence": 0.65, "risk": "watch" \},\
      "long_term":  \{ "F": 0.84, "confidence": 0.48, "risk": "critical" \}\
    \}\
  \}\
Sigil Recommendations\
Flame House \uc0\u8594  vent pressure spikes.\
Purification House \uc0\u8594  schedule soot-to-ash conversion if residue forecast unstable.\
Weaving House (Bee) \uc0\u8594  increase diversity, reinforce strained edges.\
Whale (Leviathan) \uc0\u8594  ballast schema against long-term drift divergence.\
SCUP Stress Probability\
Likelihood that semantic coherence < threshold within each horizon.\
Expressed as probability values (0\'961) and annotated as Stable / Watch / Critical.\
Example: "mid_term": \{ "p_loss": 0.68, "status": "watch" \}.\
Ops Notes\
GUI:\
Show forecast vector as time-series plot (F-curves, confidence bands).\
Overlay sigil recommendations as glyphs at the forecast horizon (Flame, Purification, Bee, Whale icons).\
Horizon bands colored green/yellow/red for stable/watch/critical.\
Owl Audits:\
Archive forecast vectors + SCUP stress probabilities for backtesting and epoch analysis.\
Schema Coupling:\
Forecast outputs inform SHI recalibration (adaptive capacity updated with projected residue, drift, tracer states).}