{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Interventions Menu (by Zone)\
\
- **Green (Stable)**  \
  - Ant swarm normalization (maintain micro-patterns).  \
  - Occasional Weave on low-risk edges to keep schema flexible.  \
  - Bee pollination limited to diversity maintenance.  \
  - **No Flame vents, no Purification batches.**  \
  - Intent: conserve resources, maintain readiness.\
\
- **Amber (Watch)**  \
  - Micro-Purification of top-K soot clusters (small, local).  \
  - Targeted Weave on stressed edges flagged by Spider.  \
  - Bee pollination to rebalance pigment biases.  \
  - Whale scan if drift vector increases beyond tolerance.  \
  - Intent: **pre-emptive stabilization** before Red escalation.\
\
- **Red (Critical Intervention)**  \
  - Batch Purification (bounded by rate caps).  \
  - Short Flame vents to release accumulated pressure.  \
  - Cap Crow spawning to avoid runaway chatter.  \
  - Beetle decay sweep on toxic residues.  \
  - Controlled Lift/Sink of nodes under residue pressure.  \
  - Spider escalation: track and weave/prune high-tension edges.  \
  - Intent: **active firefighting** \'97 stabilize coherence.\
\
- **Black (Fail-soft Containment)**  \
  - Minimal safe act set:  \
    - Emergency Flame vent.  \
    - Purification of only the worst hotspots.  \
  - Suspend Echo amplification + nonessential Mirrors.  \
  - Freeze noncritical topology transforms (e.g., no bulk reprojection).  \
  - Invoke Owl audit (record collapse) + Whale anchor (macro ballast).  \
  - Intent: **preserve core survival**; sacrifice growth for stability.\
\
---\
\
## Failure Modes & Guardrails\
\
### **Melt (Runaway Chaos)**\
- **Symptoms**:  \
  - SHI plummets.  \
  - Entropy spikes uncontrolled.  \
  - Crow tracers flood the system.  \
  - Topology tears (edges rupture faster than repair).  \
- **Guardrails**:  \
  - Immediate zone escalation to Red or Black.  \
  - Hard cap Crow spawning.  \
  - Fire Flame vents.  \
  - Emergency Purification sweep.  \
  - Halve topology motion budget to prevent tearing.  \
  - Trigger Owl/Whale checkpoint (audit + ballast reset).\
\
---\
\
### **Freeze (Ossification)**\
- **Symptoms**:  \
  - SHI flat but drift \uc0\u8776  0 (system static).  \
  - Bloom rate drops near zero.  \
  - Pigment monoculture spreads.  \
- **Guardrails**:  \
  - Induce micro-entropy with Flame micro-ignites.  \
  - Bee pollination across diverse clusters.  \
  - Relax prune thresholds to allow new links.  \
  - Schedule Lift of ash-rich anchors to surface.  \
\
---\
\
### **Over-Actuation**\
- **Symptoms**:  \
  - Interventions worsen SHI or cause oscillations.  \
  - Example: alternating Weave/Purification increases tension swings.  \
- **Guardrails**:  \
  - Increase backoff multiplier (delay repeated actions).  \
  - Reduce PID gains (smaller corrective steps).  \
  - Enter hold pattern for N ticks before retry.  \
  - Require Whale confirmation before resuming heavy ops.\
\
---\
\
### **Resource Starvation**\
- **Symptoms**:  \
  - Energy/nutrient floor breached.  \
  - Interventions skipped due to lack of capacity.  \
- **Guardrails**:  \
  - Pause nonessential acts (Echo, Weaving).  \
  - Run Beetle recycling sweep to reclaim nutrients.  \
  - Reschedule deferred interventions into batches when energy recovers.  \
\
---\
}