{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Here\'92s a fleshed-out **SCUP Coupling** section for your Forecasting Engine doc, making it concrete and operational:\
\
````markdown\
## SCUP Coupling\
\
Forecasting Engine and **SCUP (Semantic Coherence Under Pressure)** operate in tandem:  \
forecasts predict *what pressures are coming*, SCUP judges *how coherence will hold*.\
\
---\
\
### Data Flow\
1. **Input**: Forecast Engine outputs horizon projections of \\(P\\) (pressure) and \\(F=P/A\\) (forecast index).  \
2. **SCUP Evaluation**:  \
   - Calculates probability that semantic coherence < threshold within horizon.  \
   - Uses logistic model or backtested likelihood tables:\
     \\[\
     \\Pr[\\text\{loss\}] = \\sigma(\\alpha F + \\beta P + \\gamma \\Delta\\text\{drift\} - \\delta A)\
     \\]\
   - Where \uc0\u963  = sigmoid, \u916 drift = projected schema drift magnitude.  \
3. **Decision Point**:  \
   - If \\(\\Pr[\\text\{loss\}] > \\theta\\), the system shifts from **watch** to **intervene**.  \
   - Default \\(\\theta = 0.7\\), tunable per mode (explore vs conserve).  \
\
---\
\
### Pre-allocation Policy\
When threshold breached:  \
- **Tracer Budgets**  \
  - Pre-spawn Whale (macro ballast) for long horizon stress.  \
  - Hold Crow bursts if they would worsen volatility.  \
  - Queue Beetle for soot reduction if residue pressure flagged.  \
- **Energy/Nutrient Budgets**  \
  - Divert mycelial reserves toward high-SHI clusters.  \
  - Cap non-critical sigil invocations (esp. Echo House amplification).  \
\
---\
\
### Early Warning Index\
- Outputs a **SCUP Early Warning Index (SEWI)** per horizon:  \
  ```json\
  \{\
    "tick": 143015,\
    "SCUP": \{\
      "short_term": \{ "p_loss": 0.42, "SEWI": "stable" \},\
      "mid_term":   \{ "p_loss": 0.68, "SEWI": "watch" \},\
      "long_term":  \{ "p_loss": 0.81, "SEWI": "critical" \}\
    \}\
  \}\
````\
\
* Logged for Owl audits and GUI overlays.\
* GUI: colored horizon bands (green/yellow/red) with hoverable details.\
\
---\
\
### Ops Notes\
\
* **Owl** consumes SEWI for long-memory audit \uc0\u8594  narrative continuity preserved.\
* **Spider** validates whether flagged tensions align with high loss probability.\
* **Schema** uses SEWI to adjust SHI weighting (symbolic vs structural balance).\
* **Operator Hooks**: can manually override thresholds (raise/lower \uc0\u952 ).\
\
---\
\
\
}