{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Control Loops\
\
### 1) SCUP Coherence Controller (outer loop)\
\
The SCUP controller acts as the **macro regulator**: it interprets SHI deviations and decides how much corrective power (actuation budget) to allocate this tick.\
\
---\
\
#### Goal\
- Maintain **Schema Health Index (SHI)** close to a target setpoint, \\(S_\{target\}\\).  \
- Default: \\(S_\{target\} = 0.80\\).  \
- Adjust dynamically based on regime (explore, conserve, repair).  \
\
---\
\
#### Signal\
- Error signal:  \
  \\[\
  e_t = S_\{target\} - SHI_t\
  \\]  \
- Positive \\(e_t\\) = SHI below target \uc0\u8594  intervention needed.  \
- Negative \\(e_t\\) = SHI above target \uc0\u8594  minimal intervention (conserve).  \
\
---\
\
#### PID-lite Controller\
- Compute **raw actuation demand**:  \
  \\[\
  u_t = k_P e_t + k_I \\sum e + k_D (e_t - e_\{t-1\})\
  \\]  \
\
- **Gains**:  \
  - \\(k_P\\) (proportional): 0.4\'960.6 \uc0\u8594  quick response.  \
  - \\(k_I\\) (integral): 0.05\'960.2 \uc0\u8594  corrects drift/slow decay.  \
  - \\(k_D\\) (derivative): 0.1\'960.3 \uc0\u8594  damps oscillations.  \
\
- Clamp \\(u_t\\) into \\([0,1]\\).  \
  - 0 = no intervention.  \
  - 1 = full actuation (max interventions allowed).  \
\
- **Smoothing**: exponential moving average over 3\'965 ticks to avoid jitter.  \
\
---\
\
#### Allocator\
- Split \\(u_t\\) into zone-weighted shares for interventions.  \
- Example allocation (Red Zone):  \
  - Purification = 40%  \
  - Weaving = 25%  \
  - Flame = 20%  \
  - Whale = 10%  \
  - Beetle = 5%  \
\
- Amber Zone shifts balance toward Weaving + Whale;  \
- Black Zone caps everything except Purification + Flame.  \
\
---\
\
#### Ops Notes\
- Actuation budget must respect **nutrient floor** (no ops if energy < \uc0\u949 ).  \
- **Crow/Ant/Bee** generally outside controller budget (ecological actors), but can be capped in Red/Black if they destabilize.  \
- Allocator weights can adapt based on backtesting: Owl audits intervention efficiency (\uc0\u916 SHI / budget used).  \
\
---\
\
#### Telemetry Example\
```json\
\{\
  "tick": 143200,\
  "shi": 0.62,\
  "S_target": 0.80,\
  "error": 0.18,\
  "u_raw": 0.29,\
  "u_clamped": 0.29,\
  "allocations": \{\
    "purification": 0.12,\
    "weaving": 0.07,\
    "flame": 0.06,\
    "whale": 0.03,\
    "beetle": 0.01\
  \},\
  "zone": "red"\
\}\
}