{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## How Pulse Streams Fixes Under Pressure\
\
Pulse is the *inner heartbeat* that translates SCUP\'92s high-level actuation budget into concrete, tick-level interventions.  \
It runs every tick, making micro-corrections rather than waiting for crises.\
\
---\
\
### 1. Ingest\
- Pull inputs from:  \
  - **Forecasting Engine**: smoothed forecast index \\(F^\\ast\\) + horizon stress tags.  \
  - **SCUP Controller**: error signal \\(e_t\\), actuation budget \\(u_t\\).  \
  - **Hotlists**:  \
    - Tension edges (Spider),  \
    - Soot clusters (Residue/Beetle),  \
    - Drift anomalies (Whale),  \
    - Pigment imbalances (Bee).  \
\
---\
\
### 2. Plan\
- Build a slot list of micro-acts:  \
  - Example:  \
    - `purge_soot(cluster_17)`  \
    - `reinforce_thread(nA\uc0\u8594 nB)`  \
    - `flame_vent(local)`  \
    - `whale_scan(window=50)`  \
- Plan respects:  \
  - Zone priority order (Amber vs Red vs Black).  \
  - Rate limits (e.g., \uc0\u8804 2 Purifications per tick).  \
  - Nutrient & motion budget constraints.  \
\
---\
\
### 3. Route\
- Convert each planned act into a **Sigil invocation** routed to the appropriate House:  \
  - `purge_soot` \uc0\u8594  Purification House  \
  - `reinforce_thread` \uc0\u8594  Weaving House  \
  - `flame_vent` \uc0\u8594  Flame House  \
  - `whale_scan` \uc0\u8594  Mirrors/Flame hybrid (audit + ballast)  \
- Stacks constructed for each tick, respecting House compatibility rules.  \
- Invalid stacks blocked; Owl audit logs mismatches.  \
\
---\
\
### 4. Execute\
- Fire sigil stacks in priority order.  \
- Track:  \
  - Which slots executed vs deferred,  \
  - Resource consumption (energy, motion budget),  \
  - Any safety overrides triggered (nutrient floor breach, motion cap).  \
- Update **residual budget** \\(u_t - \\text\{slots used\}\\).  \
\
---\
\
### 5. Evaluate\
- Measure immediate deltas:  \
  - \uc0\u916 SHI (coherence improvement)  \
  - \uc0\u916 \u964  (edge tension reduction)  \
  - \uc0\u916 \u961  (soot/ash pressure relief)  \
- Log outcomes for Owl and backtesting.  \
- Feed evaluation back into SCUP controller state:  \
  - If acts successful \uc0\u8594  keep weights steady.  \
  - If ineffective or oscillatory \uc0\u8594  adjust backoff multipliers.  \
\
---\
\
### Example Pulse Log\
```json\
\{\
  "tick": 143225,\
  "plan": ["purge_soot:c17", "reinforce_thread:nA-nB", "flame_vent:local"],\
  "routed": [\
    \{"house":"purification","sigil":"purge_soot","target":"c17"\},\
    \{"house":"weaving","sigil":"reinforce_thread","edge":"nA-nB"\},\
    \{"house":"flame","sigil":"flame_vent","scope":"local"\}\
  ],\
  "executed": ["purge_soot:c17","reinforce_thread:nA-nB"],\
  "skipped": ["flame_vent:local"], \
  "reason_skipped": "nutrient_guard",\
  "outcome": \{"d_shi": +0.06, "tension_drop": 0.14, "soot_drop": 0.11\}\
\}\
}