{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ### 2) Pulse Scheduler (inner loop)\
\
The **Pulse Scheduler** executes the controller\'92s actuation budget (\\(u_t\\)) in fine-grained bursts.  \
It translates high-level allocations into micro-actions routed through the Sigil Ring.\
\
---\
\
#### Cadence\
- Runs **every tick**.  \
- Splits actuation budget into **slots** (micro-bursts).  \
- Each slot = one intervention (e.g., prune_edge, weave_thread, flame_vent).  \
\
---\
\
#### Policy\
- **Rate Limits** (per tick, defaults):  \
  - Purification \uc0\u8804  2 ops  \
  - Weave \uc0\u8804  1 op  \
  - Flame \uc0\u8804  1 op  \
  - Whale \uc0\u8804  1 scan  \
  - Beetle \uc0\u8804  1 sweep  \
- **Priority Order (per zone)**:  \
  - **Green**: Weave > Bee > Ant (light ops only).  \
  - **Amber**: Purification micro > Weave > Bee/Whale.  \
  - **Red**: Purification batch > Weave > Flame > Whale > Beetle.  \
  - **Black**: Purification minimal > Flame emergency > Whale/Owl > suspend others.  \
- **Backoff**:  \
  - If repeated act fails (no \uc0\u916 SHI improvement or entropy \u8593 ), reduce slot allocation by 50% for N ticks.  \
- **Hysteresis Windows**:  \
  - Keep interventions active for a minimum of N ticks before reevaluation (e.g., Purification streak = 3 ticks).  \
  - Prevents thrash from toggling actions on/off.  \
\
---\
\
#### Safety\
- **Motion Budget Guard**:  \
  - Ensure \uc0\u931 \u8214 \u916 x\u8214  \u8804  topology budget per tick; cap Weave/Fission/Lift if exceeded.  \
- **Sigil Ring Composability**:  \
  - Conflicting glyphs (e.g., Flame ignite + Flame extinguish) blocked.  \
  - Stacks must pass House compatibility.  \
- **Nutrient Budget Guard**:  \
  - No act may fire if mycelial reserves below \uc0\u949 .  \
  - Emergency ops (Flame, Purification) bypass with Owl audit logging.  \
\
---\
\
#### Telemetry (per tick)\
```json\
\{\
  "tick": 143210,\
  "pulse": \{\
    "zone": "red",\
    "slots_available": 5,\
    "planned": [\
      \{"op":"purge_soot","target":"cluster_12"\},\
      \{"op":"reinforce_thread","edge":"nA-nC"\},\
      \{"op":"flame_vent","scope":"local"\},\
      \{"op":"whale_scan","window":50\}\
    ],\
    "executed": ["purge_soot:cluster_12","reinforce_thread:nA-nC","flame_vent:local"],\
    "rate_limits": \{"purification":2,"weave":1,"flame":1\},\
    "backoff": \{"purification":false,"weave":false,"flame":false\},\
    "safety_checks": \{"motion":"ok","nutrients":"ok","sigil":"ok"\}\
  \}\
\}\
}