{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Thresholds (defaults; tune per regime)\
\
These are the baseline parameters for SCUP zone classification and Pulse control.  \
All thresholds are tunable per regime (explore / conserve / repair).\
\
---\
\
- **Schema Health (SHI)**\
  - **\uc0\u952 _ok** = 0.70 \u8594  healthy operating floor.  \
  - **\uc0\u952 _warn** = 0.55 \u8594  warning threshold; triggers Amber\u8594 Red shift.  \
  - **\uc0\u952 _crit** = 0.40 \u8594  critical failure zone; forces Black mode.  \
\
- **Forecast Index (F) Bounds**\
  - **Green**: \\(F^\\ast < 0.5\\)  \
  - **Amber**: \\(0.5 \\le F^\\ast < 1.0\\)  \
  - **Red**: \\(1.0 \\le F^\\ast < 1.5\\)  \
  - **Black**: \\(F^\\ast \\ge 1.5\\)  \
  - Smoothed value (\\(F^\\ast\\)) used to avoid jitter; hysteresis \uc0\u916  \u8776  0.05\'960.1.  \
\
- **Tension (Edges)**\
  - If edge \\(\\tau_\{ij\} > \\tau^\\*\\) \uc0\u8594  mark edge as stressed.  \
  - Typical \\(\\tau^\\*\\) = 0.2\'960.3 (relative scale).  \
  - Stressed edges routed to Spider for monitoring \uc0\u8594  candidates for **Weave** (reinforce) or **Prune** (cut).  \
\
- **Residue (Soot/Ash Pressure)**\
  - Local **soot > 0.6** \uc0\u8594  prioritize **Purification** (decay removal).  \
  - Local **ash > 0.6** \uc0\u8594  candidate for **Lift** (rebloom anchor).  \
  - Balanced mix preferred; extreme bias triggers Beetle or Whale checks.  \
\
---\
\
### Ops Notes\
- Thresholds scale with **regime**:  \
  - **Explore mode** \uc0\u8594  loosen thresholds (higher entropy tolerated).  \
  - **Conserve mode** \uc0\u8594  tighten thresholds (act earlier).  \
  - **Repair mode** \uc0\u8594  prioritize Purification/Lift even under mild pressure.  \
\
- GUI overlay should expose thresholds visually:  \
  - SHI bar with zone color bands.  \
  - Drift/tension alerts when thresholds breached.  \
  - Residue bars showing soot/ash ratio with Purification/Lift cues.  \
\
- Owl audits log any threshold breach + intervention chosen; used for backtesting zone calibration.  \
}